Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 15130 Case Name State of Bihar and Ors. Vs Nandeshwar Kumar (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); State of Bihar and Ors. Vs Nandeshwar Kumar (Supreme Court of India) Public Employment Eligibility Must Satisfy the Applicable Recruitment Rules, Even Where the Qualification Predates Those Rules Pre-NCTE Certificate Does Not Automatically Establish Teacher Recruitment Eligibility: Supreme Court The legal principle A qualification obtained before a statutory recognition regime came into force does not, by that circumstance alone, establish eligibility for an appointment made subsequently under recruitment rules prescribing recognised qualifications. The Supreme Court held that eligibility for public employment must be examined with reference to the applicable recruitment rules at the relevant recruitment stage. The Court stated that eligibility is ordinarily assessed on the last date for submitting applications or, at the latest, by the date of appointment. The date on which the candidate obtained the certificate cannot independently determine eligibility for a later appointment. Applying this principle, the Court set aside the Patna High Court’s direction reinstating a teacher with consequential benefits. The certificate and the subsequent appointment Nandeshwar Kumar obtained a Senior Teacher Training Certificate from Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta, in January 1995. The National Council for Teacher Education legislation came into force on 1 July 1995. He was appointed as a Trained Block Teacher on 11 September 2007, under the Bihar Panchayat Elementary Teacher (Employment and Service Conditions) Rules, 2006. In October 2015, the District Programme Officer found that his training certificate had been issued by an unrecognised institution. Following a show-cause notice and his response, his services were terminated on 2 December 2015. The teacher argued that his qualification preceded the NCTE legislation. He also relied on the institution’s registration under the West Bengal Societies Registration Act, 1961, and pointed out that another teacher holding a certificate from the same institution continued in service. Conflicting decisions before the Supreme Court The District Teacher Appellate Authority set aside the termination and directed reinstatement with consequential benefits. However, the State Appellate Authority reversed that decision, relying on earlier judicial findings concerning the institution and its certificates. The Single Judge of the Patna High Court dismissed the teacher’s challenge. On appeal, the Division Bench reversed that decision and ordered reinstatement with all consequential benefits, including monetary benefits. The Division Bench considered that the NCTE legislation could not apply to a certificate obtained before its commencement. It also noted the absence of material from the competent authorities in West Bengal establishing whether the institution was recognised or whether the certificate was valid. The State of Bihar challenged this reinstatement before the Supreme Court. Certificate genuineness and recruitment eligibility are distinct The Supreme Court examined the earlier proceedings concerning certificates issued by several institutions, including Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education. In an earlier case, the Jharkhand High Court had noticed similarities in certificate formats, signatures and institutional addresses. It had also observed that the college existed on paper. However, the Supreme Court noted that the courts had undertaken their own assessment without adequate assistance or cogent material from the parties. The Court referred to Seema Kumari and Others v. State of Jharkhand and Others, (2006) 12 SCC 215, in which the earlier observations and findings concerning the genuineness of the institutions had been set aside. Consequently, the present judgment did not rest on a conclusive finding that the teacher’s certificate was fake. The decisive issue was his eligibility under the recruitment rules governing the 2007 appointment. The applicable recruitment rules controlled the appointment Rule 8(a) of the 2006 Rules prescribed the qualifications for appointment as a Block Teacher. The quoted provision included two-year teacher training qualifications from an NCTE-recognised training institution, along with other specified qualifications. The provision also contained language permitting, in the first employment, certain candidates with qualifications obtained before the NCTE legislation came into force, provided those qualifications were from a recognised training school or recognised college. The Supreme Court recorded that the teacher’s appointment was admittedly governed by the 2006 Rules. It further recorded that the certificate relied upon was not recognised by NCTE and concluded that he did not possess the requisite statutory qualification when appointed. Possession of a certificate and possession of the qualification prescribed for recruitment are separate questions. Why the prospective-operation argument failed The Division Bench had treated the certificate’s pre-July 1995 issuance as sufficient to exclude the NCTE requirements. The Supreme Court held that this approach was misplaced. The appointment occurred in 2007, under the 2006 recruitment rules. Eligibility therefore had to be tested against those rules, rather than determined solely by the certificate’s earlier date. The Court allowed the State’s appeal, set aside the Division Bench judgment and dismissed the teacher’s Letters Patent Appeal. The direction granting reinstatement and consequential benefits consequently ceased to operate. Author’s comments The judgment distinguishes the historical acquisition of a qualification from its sufficiency for subsequent public employment. An earlier certificate does not automatically satisfy later recruitment requirements. At the same time, the ruling should be read with its particular statutory setting. The reproduced rule contains a provision concerning pre-NCTE qualifications from recognised institutions, but the judgment does not separately elaborate on that provision. It would therefore be excessive to describe the decision as invalidating every pre-NCTE qualification. The central lesson is that eligibility must be established under the governing recruitment rules, including any applicable saving or alternative qualification provision. Cases Discussed Seema Kumari and Others v. State of Jharkhand and Others, (2006) 12 SCC 215 (Supreme Court) FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER 1. This civil appeal assails the Division Bench order of High Court of Judicature at Patna rendered in LPA No.669 of 2022, arising out of Civil Writ Jurisdiction Case No.14676 of 2022. 1.1 The Division Bench in LPA No.669 of 2022 has reversed the order of the Single Bench rendered in CWJ Case No.14676 of 2022 and directed the respondent herein to be reinstated with all consequential benefits including monetary, to be granted within four months. 2. The factual matrix involved herein are, for convenience, reproduced in tabular illustration chronologically: – Date Events 02.01.1995 Respondent is issued Senior Teacher Training Certificate by Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta. 01.07.1995 NCTE Act is made effective. 11.09.2007 The respondent on the strength of the said certificate is appointed as Trained Block Teacher under the Bihar Panchayat Elementary Teacher (Employment and Service Conditions) Rules, 2006. 31.10.2015 The District Programme Officer finds certificate of respondent to be issued by an unrecognized institution. 26.11.2015 Consequently, a show-cause notice is issued to the respondent along with three others to explain as to why services be not terminated. 28.11.2015 Respondent responds by submitting that educational qualification was obtained much before the NCTE Act came into effect and also that the certificate obtained was from Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta which was registered as a society under the West Bengal Societies Registration Act, 1961 and also that another candidate by the name Vinod Kumar son of Jageshwar Das., who had obtained certificate from the same college continues to serve as Trained Block Teacher. 02.12.2015 Respondent suffers termination of service owing to the said certificate having been issued by an unrecognized institution. 11.01.2016 On respondent filing CWJ Case No.19322 of 2015 the High Court disposed of the same without entering into merits by relegating the respondent to avail remedy before the District Teacher Appellate Authority. 20.02.2016 The District Teacher Appellate Authority set aside the termination and directed for reinstatement with all consequential benefits. 16.09.2022 State Appellate Authority reversed the finding and order of the District Teacher Appellate Authority by holding thus; (i) In view of the finding rendered in order dated 14.09.2012 in LPA No.244 of 2011 whereby Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta was found neither recognized by NCTE nor by Government of Bihar; (ii) Reliance was also placed on an earlier decision rendered on 30.03.2005 in LPA No.235 of 2004 by the Division Bench of Jharkhand High Court which had the occasion to assess the legality and validity of the certificates issued by nine institutes including Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta. However, in the absence of any assistance from the rival parties, the Division Bench in LPA No.235 of 2004, embarked upon a self-assessing exercise to adjudge the legality of certificate issued by these nine institutes. This exercise led to the recording of following observations: – (a) The formats of certificates issued by all the nine institutes including Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta were same. (b) Signatures of Principal of all institutes were same. (c) Signature of examiner in 4-5 institutes were common. (d) The address of some of the institutes were common. (e) Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta was found to exist on paper. Thus, on the basis of above observations, the Division Bench in LPA No.235 of 2004, declined relief of appointment to various appellants (selected candidates) by upholding the decision of the State Government and the Single Bench dated 04.03.2004, challenged before Division Bench. 10.11.2022 Aggrieved, the respondent herein Nandeshwar Kumar, one of the terminated Trained Block Teachers unsuccessfully approached the Single Bench of High Court of Judicature at Patna in CWJC No.14676 of 2022. 2022 Respondent feeling aggrieved preferred LPA No.669 of 2022 assailing the order of Single Bench dated 10.11.2022. 08.07.2025 LPA No.669 of 2022 was allowed reversing the order and findings of Single Bench and directing the respondent to be reinstated with all consequential benefits after finding thus: – “4 …… Reading of the paragraph Nos.5 and 8 of the aforementioned decision, it is squarely covered in favour of the appellant, the same has not been apprised by the learned Single Judge and so also not apprising the fact that appellant was in possession of senior teacher training certificate on 09.01.1995 and NCTE Act, 1993 which is in vogue with effect from 01.07.1995 has no application to the case in hand. Further, in order to ascertain whether Dr. B.C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta, State of West Bengal is recognized or not recognized, to that effect there is no material information and that too from the competent authority of the State of West Bengal. The State has also not ascertained from the State of West Bengal whether Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta, State of West Bengal is a genuine institution and other correspondence so as to contend that the appellant is not in possession of valid teacher training certificate. These are all the issues which have not been adjudicated by the learned Single Judge, therefore, appellant has made out a case so as to interfere with the order of learned Single Judge dated 10.11.2022 passed in CWJC No.14676 and the impugned order dated 16.09.2022 before the learned Single Judge are set aside.” 2025 Aggrieved by the order and judgment in LPA No.669 of 2022, the State of Bihar is before this Court in the instant Civil Appeal. 3. In the backdrop of aforesaid factual matrix, it is palpable that on two occasions when the case came up for assessing the legality and validity of the certificates issued by various institutes including that of Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta, the High Court indulged in self-assessment owing to want of assistance rendered by either of the parties. In the first instance, the exercise of self-assessment was undertaken while deciding LPA No.235 of 2004 judgment dated 30.03.2005 (vide Annexure P-16, page no.64 of Rejoinder of appellant-State of Bihar). The second time the self-assessment exercise was undertaken by the Court in the impugned order, which is evident from the above extracted para 4 of impugned order. 3.1 From the aforesaid discussion, it is obvious that in the absence of any assistance extended by the rival parties at both the stages of adjudication of LPA No.235 of 2004 and LPA No.244 of 2011, the High Court did not have cogent material to come to a conclusive finding as to whether the certificates issued by Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta were fake or not. 3.2 It is for this reason that the Apex Court in Seema Kumari & Ors. vs. State of Jharkhand & Ors.1, set aside the observations and findings made by Jharkhand High Court in LPA No.235 of 2004, by expressing doubt as to the genuineness of the institutions including Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education. 3.3 We were inclined in this judgment to take a different course, but there is an aspect which glares in the face and is palpable enough to dissuade us from doing so. The respondent was appointed on 11.09.2007 as Trained Block Teacher, when he did not have the requisite and statutory qualification in terms of Bihar Panchayat Elementary Teacher (Employment and Service Conditions) Rules, 2006, in particular Rule 8(a), which for ready reference and convenience is reproduced below in toto:- “Rule – 8. For appointment: (a) Eligibility For Block Teacher: – (i) Should be a citizen of India and a resident of the state of Bihar. (ii) Must have passed Higher Secondary or Intermediate or equivalent examination from a government recognized educational institution. (iii) Two-year teacher training, diploma or certificate from a training institute recognized by the National Council for Teacher Education (N.C.T.E.) or Graduate in Elementary Education (B.L. Ed.) Or B. Ed or equivalent qualification. Minimum two years certificate (C.P.Ed) or equivalent qualification for physical education teacher. But under this rule, in the first employment, those candidates can also be employed who have passed matriculation or equivalent examination from a government recognized school and obtained two years of teacher training examination / B.Ed./2 years certificate of physical training (CP Ed) from a recognized training school or recognized college before the National Council for Teacher Education (N.C.T.E.) Act came into force.” 3.4 From the aforesaid statutory 2006 Rules, the respondent at the time of his appointment (i.e. 11.09.2007) was though holding a certificate but the same was not recognized by the National Council for Teacher Education (N.C.T.E.). It is not disputed that the 2006 Rules were invoked when the respondent was appointed. It is also not disputed by the respondent that the certificate issued by Dr. B. C. Roy College of Education, Calcutta (Annexure P-1, at page No.31 of the SLP) was not recognized by N.C.T.E., for the obvious reason that the N.C.T.E. Act, 1995 had not come into being on the date of issuance of the said certificate which was issued as early as in January 1995. 3.5 The N.C.T.E. Act came into force from 01.07.1995 which impelled the State of Bihar to frame the 2006 Rules stipulating that diploma/certificate ought to have been issued by a training institute recognized by N.C.T.E. 3.6 Thus, on the date of appointment as Trained Block Teacher i.e., 11.09.2007, respondent was not eligible as per 2006 Rules, for not having obtained certificate from an institute recognized by N.C.T.E. 4. A bare perusal of the impugned order of Division Bench reveals that the Division Bench fell into error by holding that N.C.T.E. Act had no application to the case of respondent since the N.C.T.E. norms would only be applicable prospectively w.e.f. 01.07.1995 and not prior thereto. 4.1 This view taken in the impugned order is misplaced, inasmuch as, the eligibility of a candidate for appointment to any public office is seen on the last date of submission of application forms or at best latest by the date of appointment, which clearly stipulated that the same is being offered to respondent in terms of Bihar Panchayat Elementary Teacher (Employment and Service Conditions) Rules, 2006. It goes without saying that as mentioned above, the eligibility of becoming a Trained Block Teacher was diploma/certificate from an institute recognized by N.C.T.E., which the respondent at the relevant point of time did not possess. 4.2 Be that as it may, we are of the considered opinion that the candidature of respondent could not have been considered as eligible under the 2006 Rules at the time of his appointment in 2007. Having held so, we feel that the impugned order of Division Bench rendered in LPA No.669 of 2022 by the High Court of Judicature at Patna deserves to be and is accordingly set aside. 5. Consequently, the present Civil Appeal No.13079 of 2026 filed by the State of Bihar stands allowed and the LPA No.669 of 2022 of respondent stands dismissed. Note: 1 (2006) 12 SCC 215 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 7,002 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty Section 153C Invalid Where Seized Material Reached AO After April 2021: ITAT Delhi October 8, 2026 Supreme Court Rules Electricity Cost Subsidy Is Taxable Revenue Receipt October 8, 2026 Section 14A Disallowance Cannot Exceed Exempt Income: ITAT Ahmedabad October 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law MMDR Cognizance Irregularity Does Not Vitiate Trial Without Prejudice: SC October 8, 2026 Contraband Concealed in Private Vehicle Can Indicate Conscious Possession: SC October 8, 2026 Insolvency Set-Off Not Permissible During CIRP; Contractual & Transactional Set-Off Are Exceptions: SC October 8, 2026 Gujarat Works Contract Tribunal Can Grant Interim Relief Under Section 17 of Arbitration Act: SC October 8, 2026 Judgment Obtained by Fraud Is Nullity & Can Be Challenged at Any Time: Supreme Court October 8, 2026 CIRP Surplus Outside Resolution Plan Distributable Under Section 53 IBC: NCLAT Delhi October 8, 2026