Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Mphasis, a global leader in AI-driven technology solutions, has announced the extension of its partnership with Social Security Scotland, securing a contract valued at approximately £35.4 million. The agreement aims to enhance the management and maintenance of Social Security Scotland’s benefits platform, which is crucial for delivering essential services to over 2 million citizens across Scotland. Under the terms of the contract, Mphasis will focus on ensuring the stability and resilience of the benefits management platform. This platform plays a pivotal role in the administration of various social security payments, including disability and heating support, thereby ensuring citizens have reliable access to the benefits they need. The initiative underscores Mphasis’ commitment to improving operational efficiency and delivering meaningful outcomes for individuals and families throughout Scotland. Ashish Devalekar, Executive Vice President and Head of Europe at Mphasis, highlighted the significance of the partnership, stating, “Our ongoing relationship with Social Security Scotland allows us to continue supporting one of the country’s most critical public service platforms. Our commitment is to maintain continuity, improve operational efficiency, and deliver meaningful outcomes for individuals and families across Scotland.” This collaboration aligns with Mphasis’ broader focus on supporting government organisations in running secure and future-ready digital services. Social Security Scotland, one of the largest executive agencies of the Scottish Government, is responsible for efficiently and securely delivering core benefits to the Scottish populace. The partnership with Mphasis is expected to mitigate risks associated with operational inefficiencies and disruptions, ensuring the consistent availability of essential services. Analysts view this development as a strategic move for Mphasis, reinforcing its position in the public sector and showcasing its capabilities in managing large-scale, critical digital platforms. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under NSE Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Sun Pharma establishes endowed professorship to advance dermatologic care October 6, 2026 Godrej Consumer Products Opens New Manufacturing Facility in Indonesia October 6, 2026 Lupin unveils world’s first fixed-dose triple combination drug for COPD in India October 6, 2026 Glenmark Therapeutics launches new pump packs for Adapalene Gel USP, 0.1% in the USA October 6, 2026 IREDA signs performance MoU with MNRE for fiscal year 2026-27 October 5, 2026 Zydus and MSN launch first generic of Adempas® in the US market October 5, 2026