Summary: Input Tax Credit is fundamental to the GST framework, but its availability depends upon satisfaction of statutory conditions under the CGST Act and CGST Rules. ITC may require reversal for several reasons, including non-payment to suppliers within 180 days, use of inputs or input services for exempt or non-business purposes, blocked credits under section 17(5), and failure to satisfy conditions prescribed under section 16. An important compliance distinction exists between temporary reversals, which may subsequently be reclaimed after fulfilment of the relevant condition, and permanent or absolute reversals where the credit is statutorily unavailable. Rule 37 deals with reversal arising from non-payment to suppliers, while Rules 42 and 43 govern apportionment involving inputs, input services and capital goods used for taxable, exempt or non-business purposes. CBIC Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST also prescribes the reporting framework for different categories of ITC reversals in Form GSTR-3B. GSTR-2B assists reconciliation but does not by itself establish legal eligibility for credit. Section 17(5) separately blocks specified credits, including certain motor vehicle, personal-consumption, works contract, immovable-property and destroyed-goods related credits. The Supreme Court’s Safari Retreats decision further illustrates how the purpose, use and statutory classification of expenditure may affect ITC eligibility. Effective ITC management therefore requires continuous reconciliation of invoices, GSTR-2B, GSTR-3B, books, supplier compliance and payment records, together with correct classification of temporary and permanent reversals. Table of Contents▸ Abstract Part I – Introduction Part II – Legal Framework 1. Section 16 – Basic Conditions for Availing ITC Time limit under Section 16(4) 2. Reversal for Non-Payment to Supplier – Rule 37 Example 3. Reversal under Rules 42 and 43 – Exempt and Non-Business Use Rule 42 Rule 43 4. Blocked Credits under Section 17(5) 5. Section 16(2)(b) and 16(2)(c) 6. Reporting of ITC Reversal in GSTR-3B Permanent/absolute reversals Temporary reversals Part III – Contemporary and Practical Analysis 1. GSTR-2B and the Compliance Challenge 2. Practical Case Study 3. Safari Retreats and the Meaning of Blocked ITC 4. Recent Legislative Development – Section 16(5) and 16(6) Part IV – Critical Discussion 1. Compliance Burden on Businesses 2. Supplier Default and Recipient Risk 3. Temporary Versus Permanent Reversal 4. Interest and Litigation Exposure 5. Technology Does Not Eliminate Legal Responsibility Part V – Conclusion and Suggestions 1. Conduct monthly ITC reconciliation 2. Maintain a reversal register 3. Monitor the 180-day payment condition 4. Identify blocked credits at source 5. Maintain documentary evidence 6. Integrate tax and accounting systems 7. Review changes in law and judicial decisions Final Observation References / Sources Show all 36 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Abstract Input Tax Credit (ITC) is one of the central features of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) system because it prevents cascading of taxes by allowing a registered person to set off eligible input tax against output tax liability. However, ITC is not an unconditional entitlement. The Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (“CGST Act”) and the CGST Rules, 2017 prescribe several circumstances in which credit must either be reversed temporarily or permanently treated as unavailable. These include non-payment to suppliers within the prescribed period, use of inputs for exempt or non-business purposes, blocked credits under section 17(5), failure to satisfy the conditions of section 16, and other statutory restrictions. The compliance problem is particularly significant because ITC reporting is increasingly connected with system-generated data such as Form GSTR-2B, while the taxpayer remains responsible for determining whether the credit is actually eligible. This blog examines the legal framework governing ITC reversal, the distinction between temporary and permanent reversals, recent developments including the 2024 Supreme Court decision in Safari Retreats, and practical challenges faced by businesses in maintaining accurate ITC records. Part I – Introduction Goods and Services Tax was introduced in India with the objective of creating a comprehensive indirect tax framework and reducing the cascading effect of taxes. The mechanism of Input Tax Credit (ITC) is fundamental to this structure. Under section 16(1) of the CGST Act, a registered person is entitled, subject to prescribed conditions and restrictions, to claim credit of input tax charged on supplies used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of business. However, the entitlement to ITC is conditional. A taxpayer may initially record or claim ITC but may subsequently be required to reverse it because a statutory condition has not been satisfied or because the use of the relevant goods or services changes. The issue is important because wrongly retained ITC can result in additional tax liability, interest and, depending on the circumstances, penalty proceedings. At the same time, excessive or incorrect reversal can unnecessarily increase the taxpayer’s working-capital burden. A particularly important compliance issue is the distinction between: 1. ITC that is permanently ineligible and cannot normally be reclaimed; and 2. ITC that must be reversed temporarily but may be re-availed once the statutory condition is subsequently fulfilled. CBIC itself has recognised this distinction in Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST while prescribing the manner of reporting ITC reversals in Form GSTR-3B. Therefore, ITC reversal should not be understood merely as an accounting adjustment. It is a statutory compliance mechanism that directly affects a taxpayer’s GST liability and working capital. Part II – Legal Framework 1. Section 16 – Basic Conditions for Availing ITC Section 16 of the CGST Act lays down the principal conditions for claiming ITC. Under section 16(1), ITC is available on goods or services used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of business. However, section 16(2) imposes additional conditions. Broadly, the recipient must satisfy requirements relating to: possession of a valid tax invoice or debit note; furnishing of relevant invoice details by the supplier; receipt of goods or services; payment of tax to the Government, subject to the statutory framework; and filing of the relevant return. The Act therefore establishes an important principle: mere possession of an invoice does not automatically create an unrestricted right to ITC. Time limit under Section 16(4) Section 16(4) also places a statutory time limit on availing ITC. Following the amendment, the relevant deadline is generally 30 November following the end of the financial year to which the invoice or debit note pertains, or furnishing of the relevant annual return, whichever is earlier. This means that even otherwise eligible ITC can become unavailable if it is not claimed within the statutory period. 2. Reversal for Non-Payment to Supplier – Rule 37 One of the most common temporary reversal situations arises under Rule 37 of the CGST Rules. Where a recipient has availed ITC but fails to pay the supplier the value of the supply along with the tax payable within 180 days from the date of the invoice, the recipient is required to reverse the corresponding ITC along with applicable interest. The reversal is not necessarily permanent. When the recipient subsequently makes the required payment to the supplier, the ITC may be re-availed. Example Suppose A Ltd. purchases professional services worth ₹1,00,000 plus GST of ₹18,000 from B Ltd. A Ltd.: receives the service; receives a valid invoice; claims ₹18,000 as ITC; but does not pay B Ltd. within 180 days. A Ltd. must reverse the relevant ITC in accordance with Rule 37. Once payment satisfying the rule is subsequently made, the credit may be reclaimed. Thus, Rule 37 represents a temporary reversal mechanism, rather than a permanent denial of credit. 3. Reversal under Rules 42 and 43 – Exempt and Non-Business Use Rules 42 and 43 deal with apportionment and reversal of ITC where inputs, input services or capital goods are used partly for: taxable supplies; and exempt supplies; or partly for: business purposes; and non-business purposes. Rule 42 Rule 42 applies principally to inputs and input services. If common inputs or input services are used for both taxable and exempt supplies, the portion attributable to exempt supplies is required to be reversed according to the prescribed formula. Rule 43 Rule 43 provides a corresponding mechanism for capital goods. The underlying principle is that a taxpayer should not retain the benefit of ITC attributable to activities for which the legislation does not permit such credit. CBIC has specifically identified reversals under Rules 42 and 43 as examples of reversals that are generally absolute in nature, to be reported separately from temporary reversals. 4. Blocked Credits under Section 17(5) Section 17(5) identifies certain categories of goods and services on which ITC is specifically restricted. Examples include specified categories relating to: motor vehicles; food and beverages and certain personal-consumption expenses; membership of clubs and similar facilities; certain works contract services; goods or services used for construction of immovable property, subject to statutory exceptions; goods lost, stolen, destroyed, written off or disposed of by way of gift or free samples; and certain taxes paid pursuant to specified proceedings. The significance of section 17(5) is that the credit is generally blocked by statute, rather than merely being temporarily suspended. Consequently, taxpayers must identify such credits before they are incorrectly included in the net ITC available for utilisation. 5. Section 16(2)(b) and 16(2)(c) ITC can also become subject to reversal where the statutory conditions concerning receipt of goods or services and tax compliance by the supplier are not satisfied. CBIC Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST specifically recognises reversals associated with section 16(2)(b) and section 16(2)(c) as reversals that may subsequently be reclaimed after the relevant conditions are fulfilled. This distinction is important because the appearance of an invoice in the recipient’s records does not by itself resolve every eligibility question. 6. Reporting of ITC Reversal in GSTR-3B ITC reversal is not merely an internal accounting exercise. It must be correctly reflected in the GST return. CBIC Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST provides important guidance on reporting. Broadly: Permanent/absolute reversals These include: Rule 38 reversals; Rule 42 reversals; Rule 43 reversals; and ineligible ITC under section 17(5). These are reported in Table 4(B)(1) of GSTR-3B. Temporary reversals These include, among others: Rule 37 reversals; certain reversals under section 16(2)(b); certain reversals under section 16(2)(c). These are reported in Table 4(B)(2) and may subsequently be reclaimed when the applicable conditions are satisfied. The distinction is particularly important because the amount reported as net ITC in Table 4(C) ultimately affects the electronic credit ledger. CBIC has emphasised that ineligible or reversible ITC should not form part of the net ITC available for utilisation. Part III – Contemporary and Practical Analysis 1. GSTR-2B and the Compliance Challenge One of the most important developments in GST compliance has been the use of GSTR-2B, a system-generated statement containing invoice-wise information relevant to ITC. Although GSTR-2B significantly assists taxpayers in reconciling purchase invoices, it does not mean that every amount appearing in GSTR-2B is automatically eligible for credit. A taxpayer must still examine questions such as: Was the supply actually received? Was it used for business purposes? Is it blocked under section 17(5)? Was payment made within the prescribed period? Is the invoice genuine and correctly reported? Is the supplier’s tax compliance relevant to the particular claim? Has the statutory time limit expired? CBIC’s Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST specifically explains that GSTR-2B data is incorporated into GSTR-3B, but the registered person must identify ineligible ITC and reversals before determining net ITC. Therefore, GSTR-2B is a reconciliation tool, not a substitute for legal eligibility analysis. 2. Practical Case Study Consider the following hypothetical example. ABC Manufacturing Ltd. purchases the following during April 2026: Particulars GST Paid ITC Position Raw materials used in taxable production ₹1,80,000 Eligible Office rent ₹36,000 Generally eligible, subject to conditions Employee recreation expense falling within blocked category ₹18,000 Potentially blocked under §17(5) Common consultancy services used for taxable and exempt supplies ₹50,000 Apportionment required Supplier invoice remaining unpaid beyond 180 days ₹27,000 Reversal under Rule 37 Goods destroyed in warehouse ₹10,000 Section 17(5) implications ABC Manufacturing cannot simply claim the entire ₹3,21,000 as available ITC. It must separately analyse each category. The ₹1,80,000 relating to taxable production may qualify if all section 16 conditions are satisfied. The ₹18,000 falling within a blocked category cannot ordinarily be retained merely because the expense was incurred by the business. The common consultancy expense requires an examination under Rule 42 if it relates partly to exempt supplies. The ₹27,000 subject to Rule 37 would require reversal if the statutory conditions are triggered, with potential re-availment after payment. The treatment of destroyed goods must be examined under section 17(5). This example demonstrates that ITC reconciliation is fundamentally a legal exercise as well as an accounting exercise. 3. Safari Retreats and the Meaning of Blocked ITC A significant contemporary development is the Supreme Court’s judgment in Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax v. M/s Safari Retreats Pvt. Ltd., 2024 INSC 756. The dispute concerned ITC relating to goods and services used in constructing a shopping mall that was subsequently intended to be used for rental activities. The Supreme Court considered sections 17(5)(c) and 17(5)(d) of the CGST Act and upheld the constitutional validity of these provisions. However, the Court held that the expression “plant or machinery” in section 17(5)(d) is distinct from the expression “plant and machinery” defined elsewhere in the Act. It further held that whether a building can qualify as a “plant” requires a factual determination based on the functionality of the building in the taxpayer’s business. The decision demonstrates an important point about ITC reversal: the taxpayer cannot determine eligibility merely by looking at the name of an expenditure. The purpose, use and statutory classification of the goods or services may be decisive. The GST Council subsequently considered the implications of the judgment and specifically discussed amendment of section 17(5)(d) following Safari Retreats. 4. Recent Legislative Development – Section 16(5) and 16(6) Another important development is the introduction of provisions addressing certain historical ITC disputes. The 53rd GST Council deliberations recorded the proposed changes concerning section 16(4), including the statutory time limit of 30 November and issues relating to earlier financial years and cancellation/revocation of registration. The development illustrates that ITC disputes frequently involve a tension between: Revenue protection and genuine taxpayer claims affected by procedural or historical difficulties. For taxpayers, this makes it particularly important to distinguish between: credit that is substantively ineligible; credit that was temporarily reversed; credit that was incorrectly claimed; credit that is legally available but claimed beyond the statutory time limit. These categories can have very different consequences. Part IV – Critical Discussion 1. Compliance Burden on Businesses The first major challenge is the increasing complexity of ITC reconciliation. Businesses must reconcile: Purchase register → Tax invoices → GSTR-2B → GSTR-3B → Books of account → Supplier compliance → Payment records. A mismatch at any stage can create uncertainty. For large organisations with thousands of invoices, manual reconciliation is impractical. Automated reconciliation tools therefore become increasingly important. 2. Supplier Default and Recipient Risk A significant practical difficulty arises when the recipient has complied with its own obligations but the supplier has failed to correctly report or pay tax. This creates a compliance dilemma. The recipient may have: received the goods; received a genuine invoice; paid the supplier; and recorded the transaction correctly, yet still face questions concerning ITC eligibility where statutory supplier-side conditions are not satisfied. This demonstrates that GST compliance is interconnected across the supply chain. 3. Temporary Versus Permanent Reversal Another challenge is correctly classifying the reversal. For example: Rule 37 reversal → potentially temporary → ITC may be reclaimed after payment. Whereas: Section 17(5) blocked credit → generally permanent → subsequent payment does not ordinarily make the credit eligible. Incorrect classification can result in either: wrongful retention of ITC; or unnecessary loss of working capital. CBIC’s prescribed GSTR-3B reporting framework reinforces the importance of this distinction. 4. Interest and Litigation Exposure Incorrectly availed and utilised ITC can lead to tax demands and interest consequences. The compliance risk becomes more serious where the department considers the claim to involve deliberate misstatement, suppression or other circumstances attracting enhanced statutory consequences. Accordingly, businesses should not wait until departmental scrutiny to discover ITC errors. Periodic reconciliation and self-correction are preferable compliance strategies. 5. Technology Does Not Eliminate Legal Responsibility A common misconception is that because GST returns are increasingly system-generated, the taxpayer’s responsibility is correspondingly reduced. This is not necessarily the case. Automated systems can identify: invoice mismatches; missing invoices; supplier filing patterns; differences between returns. However, software cannot always determine the legal character of an expenditure. For example, whether an expense falls within section 17(5), whether an input is used for exempt supplies, or whether a building qualifies as “plant” under the Safari Retreats functionality test may require legal and factual analysis. Thus, effective GST compliance requires cooperation between: tax professionals; finance teams; accountants; legal teams; and technology systems. Part V – Conclusion and Suggestions ITC is one of the most valuable features of GST, but it is not an unconditional tax benefit. The CGST Act establishes several circumstances in which ITC must be reversed or treated as unavailable. These include failure to satisfy section 16 conditions, non-payment to suppliers within 180 days under Rule 37, proportionate reversal under Rules 42 and 43, and blocked credits under section 17(5). The central compliance lesson is that ITC eligibility must be determined before utilisation, rather than merely after a mismatch or departmental notice occurs. The following measures can strengthen compliance: 1. Conduct monthly ITC reconciliation Businesses should reconcile purchase registers with GSTR-2B and accounting records every month. 2. Maintain a reversal register A separate ITC reversal register should classify reversals as: permanent; temporary; reclaimable; and 3. Monitor the 180-day payment condition Accounts departments should establish automated alerts for invoices approaching the 180-day period under Rule 37. 4. Identify blocked credits at source Expenses falling within section 17(5) should ideally be identified during invoice processing instead of being claimed and reversed later. 5. Maintain documentary evidence Tax invoices, purchase orders, goods-receipt records, payment records and proof of business use should be retained to establish ITC eligibility. 6. Integrate tax and accounting systems ERP systems should incorporate GST eligibility rules so that potentially ineligible credits are flagged before return filing. 7. Review changes in law and judicial decisions The Safari Retreats decision demonstrates that judicial interpretation can materially affect ITC eligibility. Businesses should therefore periodically review GST amendments, notifications, circulars and judicial developments. Final Observation The real challenge under GST is no longer simply “How much ITC has the business received?” but “How much of that ITC is legally available, how much must be reversed, and which reversals can subsequently be reclaimed?” The distinction is critical. A compliant taxpayer must move beyond invoice matching and undertake a substantive legal review of ITC eligibility. The increasing interaction between statutory conditions, automated GST data, supplier compliance and judicial interpretation makes ITC management one of the most significant continuing compliance responsibilities under GST. References / Sources 1. Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, §§ 16–17. 2. Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, rr. 37, 42–43. 3. CBIC, Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST, July 6, 2022 – clarification on reporting of ITC and ITC reversal in GSTR-3B. 4. GST Council, 53rd GST Council Meeting – Agenda/Recommendations, 2024 – issues relating to section 16(4), ITC timelines and related amendments. 5. Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Pvt. Ltd. & Ors., 2024 INSC 756(Supreme Court of India, Oct. 3, 2024). 6. CBIC, Instruction No. 02/2022-GST, Mar. 22, 2022 – verification of ITC and reversals under Rules 42 and 43. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTinput tax credit Author Info Name: Ayesha Parveen Qualification: Student - Others Location: Deoria, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Ayesha Parveen Faceless Assessment under Income Tax Act: Transparency or Trouble? February 21, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Third-Party Excel Sheet Cannot Prove Unexplained Cash Investment: ITAT Agra September 22, 2026 Consultant Fraud May Protect Bona Fide Assessee From Penalty: ITAT Bangalore September 22, 2026 Flat Sale Gains Taxable as Capital Gains; Search Additions Deleted: ITAT Mumbai September 22, 2026 No Section 153A Addition Without Incriminating Search Material: ITAT Mumbai September 22, 2026 Section 147 Reassessment Invalid After Search Triggered Section 153A: ITAT Mumbai September 22, 2026 Section 147 Reassessment Invalid When Search Material Requires Section 153C: ITAT Agra September 22, 2026