Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has revamped its “Document Number Verification System”, which was originally launched in April 2025, to strengthen the credibility of authentication of physical letters and notices issued by SEBI. The modified system now requires the “Subject Matter” of a SEBI letter as an additional mandatory field for verification and has been aligned with the Outward Number format generated through SEBI’s E-Office system. A recipient, or a person acting on the recipient’s behalf, can verify whether a SEBI letter—including a notice or show cause notice—was actually issued by SEBI by validating credentials and entering the outward number, name of the issuing SEBI official, date of the letter, subject matter and recipient’s name. SEBI has clarified that this process authenticates issuance of the communication and does not verify its contents. Where the entered particulars match SEBI’s records, the system confirms issuance; otherwise, it reports that no record was found. In such cases, the verifier may correct the particulars or seek confirmation from SEBI through e-mail. The revamped system has been operational from September 2026; communications issued before that period can be verified by emailing the necessary details to SEBI. The Document Number Verification System continues to be accessible through SEBI’s website, and a detailed Guidance Note is also available on the relevant webpage. Securities and Exchange Board of India Press Release No. 60/2026 SEBI revamps its “Document Number Verification System” 1. SEBI had launched the “Document Number Verification System” in April 2025 and a Press Release in this regard was also issued on April 3, 2025 (PR No. 17/2025). 2. In order to strengthen and increase the credibility of the authentication done, the “Document Number Verification System” has now been modified to include the ‘Subject Matter’ of a SEBI letter as one of the mandatory fields required for verification of a physical letter/notice. Further, the system has also been aligned with the Outward Number format generated through the outward module of the E-Office system in SEBI. 3. By accessing the system, the recipient (or any person on his/her behalf) of a SEBI letter (including notices, show cause notices, etc) could verify whether such letter was issued by SEBI, after validating his credentials and entering the mandatory details of the letter, namely, the outward number, name of SEBI Official issuing that letter, date of the letter, subject matter and the name of the recipient. Such verification does not constitute a verification of the contents of that letter. 4. If correct details are entered, the query would be returned with a confirmation that the letter/communication with those details had been issued by SEBI, else the system would indicate that no record is found and the verifier is advised to either enter the correct details or seek confirmation by sending an e-mail to SEBI at [email protected]. As the revamped system is operationalized from September 2026, any communication issued prior to the said period may be verified by the recipient by sending an e-mail with necessary details to [email protected]. 5. The Document Number Verification System” continues to be available on the Home Page of the SEBI Website [(www.sebi.gov.in)>Home>Authenticate Document Number Issued by SEBI]. The QR code below may also be used to access the web-page: A detailed Guidance Note on the usage is also available in the aforesaid web-page. Mumbai October 01, 2026 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under SEBISEBI notifications Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in SEBI SEBI Mandates Investor Awareness Messages on Broker Websites and Apps From November 1 October 1, 2026 SEBI Renews Recognition of BSE Clearing for Three Years from October 3, 2026 October 1, 2026 Public InvIT Listing Requires Early Review of Structure, Compliance & Governance September 29, 2026 Public InvIT Listing Requires Financial, Valuation, Borrowing & Disclosure Readiness September 29, 2026 Public InvIT Listing Requires Verified Offer Disclosures & Post-Listing Compliance Readiness September 29, 2026 SAT Mumbai Quashes SEBI Order Against Raj Oil Mills Following Monnet Ispat Ruling September 29, 2026