Summary: With effect from 1 April 2026, the relevant provisions are contained in the Income-tax Act, 2025, while corresponding provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961 remain relevant for demands arising from earlier proceedings. Recovery begins with a notice of demand and the assessee should examine the assessment or other order, service of demand, payment period and available remedies. Payment, rectification, appeal, stay, extension of time and instalments are possible depending on the circumstances. Filing an appeal does not automatically stay recovery; a separate stay application may be necessary. The article discusses the administrative benchmark of 20% for stay and the Union Budget 2026-27 proposal to reduce pre-payment to 10% of core tax demand. Once an assessee is in default and no effective stay operates, recovery may extend beyond bank balances to fixed deposits, post-office deposits, insurer payments, debtors, customers, rent, salary, money held by third parties, money lying with a Court, movable assets and, through the Tax Recovery Officer, immovable property and receiver-managed property. Refunds may also be adjusted against outstanding demand subject to the prescribed procedure. Recovery provisions can cover interest, penalty, fine and other sums, with specialised provisions dealing with recovery outside India, non-residents and other remedies. The article emphasises that every recovery matter should be examined by determining whether the demand is legally payable or disputed, whether effective protection against recovery exists, and whether the Department has proceeded through the correct statutory power and authority. Table of Contents▸ Introduction 1. Basic Statutory Framework 2. Notice of Demand and Time Allowed for Payment 3. Options Available to the Assessee After Demand Is Raised 4. Filing an Appeal Does Not Automatically Stay Recovery 5. 20% / 10% Pre-Payment for Stay of Demand 6. Complete Stay Without Pre-Deposit 7. Interest, Default and Penalty 8. Recovery of Demand — Assets and Amounts Against Which Action Can Be Taken Bank Accounts, Deposits, Debtors and Other Receivables Joint Bank Accounts Obligation and Protection of a Third Party Salary Money Lying with a Court Movable Assets Immovable Property — Power of TRO Adjustment of Income-Tax Refund Recovery Is Not Restricted Only to Basic Tax Special Recovery Situations Conclusion Show all 20 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Recovery of an outstanding income-tax demand is not an immediate or single-step action. Income-tax law provides a statutory framework beginning with the service of a notice of demand and, where the amount remains unpaid and is not protected by a valid stay, permitting the Income-tax Department to proceed against various monies, receivables, movable assets and immovable properties of the assessee. In this article, I have discussed the practical applicability, calculation methodology, reporting requirements, and key precautions relating to Rule 42 and Rule 43 of the CGST Rules. In case you have any doubt after reading this article, or if you feel that any practical aspect requires further discussion, you may contact me at the contact details mentioned at the end of this article. With effect from 1 April 2026, the relevant provisions are contained in the Income-tax Act, 2025. Since many demands presently under appeal or recovery originate from proceedings under the Income-tax Act, 1961, the corresponding provisions of the earlier Act have also been mentioned for reference. An important distinction should be understood from the beginning: the Assessing Officer (“AO”) can directly exercise several recovery powers, particularly against money, deposits and receivables; whereas the Tax Recovery Officer (“TRO”) possesses wider recovery powers, including attachment and sale of movable and immovable properties. 1. Basic Statutory Framework The principal provisions relating to recovery are broadly as follows: Particular Income-tax Act, 2025 Corresponding Income-tax Act, 1961 Notice of demand Section 289 Section 156 Time for payment / default Section 411 Section 220 Interest for delayed payment Section 411(3) Section 220(2) Extension of time / instalments Section 411(5) Section 220(3) Stay / treatment as not being in default Section 411(12) Section 220(6) Penalty for default Section 412 Section 221 Recovery through TRO Section 413 Sections 222/224 Stay / modification of TRO recovery Section 415 Section 225 Other modes of recovery / garnishee Section 416 Section 226 Recovery of interest, penalty, fine and other sums Section 419 Corresponding recovery provisions Set-off of refund against demand Section 438 Section 245 The statutory recovery provisions are contained in Chapter XIX of the Income-tax Act, 2025. 2. Notice of Demand and Time Allowed for Payment Where tax, interest, penalty or another amount becomes payable pursuant to an assessment or other order, a notice of demand under section 289 is issued to the assessee. Under section 411(1), the amount specified in the notice of demand is ordinarily required to be paid within 30 days from the date of service of the notice. A shorter period can be specified where the AO has reason to believe that allowing the full period of 30 days would be detrimental to the interests of Revenue. Such reduction requires previous approval of the Joint Commissioner. Therefore, whenever recovery proceedings are initiated, the following dates should first be checked: date of the assessment or other order; date of the notice of demand; date on which the notice was actually served; and date on which the period available for payment expired. 3. Options Available to the Assessee After Demand Is Raised After receipt of the demand, depending upon the circumstances, the assessee may: pay the demand; seek rectification where the demand arises from an apparent mistake; file an appeal against the underlying order; file a separate stay application; seek extension of time for payment; or request permission to discharge the demand through instalments. Under section 411(5), the AO may extend the time for payment or allow payment by instalments subject to appropriate conditions. Where an instalment facility has been granted but the assessee subsequently defaults in payment of an instalment, the remaining outstanding amount may become recoverable in accordance with section 411. 4. Filing an Appeal Does Not Automatically Stay Recovery One of the most important principles relating to income-tax recovery is that: mere filing of an appeal does not automatically stay the disputed demand. Under section 411(12), corresponding to old section 220(6), where an appeal is pending, the AO may, subject to appropriate conditions, treat the assessee as not being in default in respect of the amount disputed in appeal. Therefore, where an assessee wishes to prevent recovery during the pendency of the appeal, a separate stay application should ordinarily be filed. The following two actions are therefore different: Filing of appeal and Obtaining stay of recovery The assessee should not assume that filing Form 35 or another appeal automatically prevents bank attachment or other recovery action. 5. 20% / 10% Pre-Payment for Stay of Demand Under the existing administrative framework, 20% of the disputed demand has generally been referred to as the benchmark while considering stay of recovery at the first appellate stage. However, this percentage is not itself a fixed statutory pre-deposit prescribed in section 411(12). A significant change has been announced in the Union Budget 2026-27. The Government has proposed that the quantum of pre-payment be reduced from 20% to 10%, and that it continue to be calculated only on the core tax demand. The position may be understood as follows: Particular Position Existing administrative benchmark 20% Union Budget 2026-27 proposal 10% Proposed basis of calculation Core tax demand only Statutory fixed minimum under section 411(12) No fixed percentage specified Example Suppose the outstanding demand consists of: Core tax demand: ₹50 lakh Interest: ₹20 lakh Other components: ₹10 lakh Under the Budget proposal: 10% of core tax demand of ₹50 lakh = ₹5 lakh The proposed pre-payment would therefore be calculated with reference to the core tax component rather than the aggregate demand of ₹80 lakh. Since the Government’s announcement forms part of the Budget proposal, it should be described as such until implemented through the applicable statutory/administrative framework. 6. Complete Stay Without Pre-Deposit In appropriate circumstances, complete stay of the disputed demand without insisting upon any pre-deposit may also be possible. 7. Interest, Default and Penalty Where the demand is not paid within the prescribed period, section 411(3) provides for simple interest at 1% for every month or part of a month until the demand is paid. If the amount is not paid within the period specified in the demand notice or within the extended period allowed by the AO, the assessee may be treated as an assessee in default. Once the assessee is in default and no effective stay operates, the Department may invoke the recovery provisions. Apart from interest, section 412 permits penalty proceedings for default. However: reasonable opportunity of hearing must be provided; the statutory ceiling on penalty applies; and where the assessee establishes good and sufficient reasons for the default, those circumstances have to be considered. Therefore, penalty should not be regarded as an automatic consequence merely because an amount remains unpaid. 8. Recovery of Demand — Assets and Amounts Against Which Action Can Be Taken Once the assessee is in default and no effective stay exists, the Income-tax Department can proceed against different monies, receivables, movable assets and immovable properties belonging or payable to the assessee. The AO has substantial direct powers under section 416, whereas the TRO has wider property-recovery powers under section 413. Where no recovery certificate has been drawn up under section 413, the AO may independently use the modes of recovery available under section 416. The practical position is as follows: Asset / Amount AO TRO Relevant Provision Bank account balance Yes Yes Section 416(5) Fixed deposits / bank deposits Yes Yes Section 416(5) Post-office deposits Yes Yes Section 416(5) Amount payable by insurer Yes Yes Section 416(5) Debtors / customer receivables Yes Yes Section 416(5) Rent receivable from tenant Yes Yes Section 416(5) Other money due or becoming due to assessee Yes Yes Section 416(5) Money held by another person for assessee Yes Yes Section 416(5) Assessee’s share in joint bank account Yes Yes Section 416(5) Salary Yes, subject to statutory protection Yes Section 416(3) Money belonging to assessee lying with a Court Yes Yes Section 416(6) Stock, machinery, vehicles, goods and other movable assets Yes, subject to prescribed authorisation Yes Sections 416(7) / 413 Land, house, plot, factory, commercial property etc. Not directly under section 413 Yes Section 413 Property managed through appointment of receiver No Yes Section 413 Income-tax refund due Specified income-tax authorities can adjust — Section 438 Bank Accounts, Deposits, Debtors and Other Receivables Under section 416(5), the AO or TRO may issue a notice to a person: from whom money is due or may become due to the assessee; or who holds or may subsequently hold money for or on account of the assessee, requiring that person to pay the amount directly to the Income-tax Department to the extent required for satisfying the arrears. This is commonly referred to as a garnishee notice. It can therefore apply to: savings/current bank balances; fixed deposits; post-office deposits; amounts payable by insurers; debtors and customers; rent receivable from tenants; and other third-party monies belonging or payable to the assessee. The key principle is that recovery is not confined to cash already lying in the assessee’s bank account. It can extend to money which is presently due or may subsequently become due. Example Recoverable demand: ₹50 lakh Bank balance: ₹32 lakh The bank may be required to remit ₹32 lakh towards the demand. If ₹1 crore is available in the account but the legally recoverable demand is only ₹50 lakh, the recovery should remain limited to the amount necessary to satisfy the arrears. A prior TRO recovery certificate is not necessarily required before the AO uses these direct recovery powers, because section 416 independently provides these modes of recovery. Joint Bank Accounts A garnishee notice can also affect money held in a joint account. For this purpose, the shares of joint account holders may initially be presumed to be equal until the contrary is proved. Therefore, where only one joint holder is the tax defaulter, documentary evidence regarding: source of funds; actual contribution; beneficial ownership; and banking records may become important in establishing the share actually belonging to the assessee. Obligation and Protection of a Third Party A bank, debtor, customer, tenant or other person receiving a valid garnishee notice is ordinarily required to comply with the notice. Where, after receipt of the notice, the third party pays the assessee instead of the Department, statutory personal liability may arise. At the same time, the law provides protection to a genuine third party. Where the person states on oath that: no amount is due to the assessee; or no money is held for or on behalf of the assessee, the statutory objection mechanism can be invoked. If such statement is subsequently found to be materially false, the prescribed liability may follow. Salary The AO or TRO may require an employer to deduct outstanding tax arrears from salary payable to the assessee under section 416(3). However, the statutory protection applicable to salary attachment, including the protected portion under section 60 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, has to be respected. Therefore, the entire salary cannot automatically be appropriated. Money Lying with a Court Where money belonging to the assessee is in the custody of a Court, the AO or TRO may apply to that Court for payment of the amount required to discharge the outstanding tax arrears. Thus, money deposited with a Court or lying under judicial custody may also be reached through the prescribed statutory procedure. Movable Assets Under section 416(7), recovery may be made by distraint and sale of movable property, subject to the prescribed higher authorisation. Such property may include, depending upon the facts and applicable exemptions: stock; machinery; motor vehicles; goods; and other movable assets. Separately, once the matter is with the TRO, section 413 also empowers the TRO to attach and sell movable property. Immovable Property — Power of TRO The TRO has wider powers under section 413 to attach and sell the assessee’s immovable property. This may include: residential house; land; plots; commercial property; factory premises; industrial property; and other immovable assets. The TRO can also appoint a receiver for management of movable or immovable property. Thus, where monetary recovery measures are insufficient, the recovery machinery can ultimately extend to substantial property belonging to the assessee. Section 413 also contains provisions relating to specified assets transferred by an assessee to certain family members otherwise than for adequate consideration, subject to the conditions prescribed therein. Adjustment of Income-Tax Refund An income-tax refund otherwise becoming due to the assessee can also be adjusted against an outstanding demand under section 438. The applicable authority may set off the refund, wholly or partly, against an amount remaining payable. However, the assessee must be given the prescribed written intimation before adjustment. Example Outstanding demand: ₹40 lakh Refund due: ₹12 lakh The refund of ₹12 lakh may be adjusted against the demand, leaving an outstanding balance of ₹28 lakh, subject to compliance with the statutory procedure. Recovery Is Not Restricted Only to Basic Tax An important point is that the recovery machinery is not confined merely to the principal tax demand. Under section 419, the provisions relating to recovery of tax also apply, as prescribed, to recovery of: interest; penalty; fine; and other sums payable under the Act. Therefore, where such amounts have become legally recoverable, the same recovery mechanisms can potentially be invoked. Special Recovery Situations For completeness, the Act also contains provisions relating to: recovery outside India where an applicable international tax-recovery arrangement exists under section 418; recovery from certain assets in India of non-residents under section 422; and use of other lawful Government debt-recovery remedies or institution of a suit under section 421. These are comparatively specialised situations and would ordinarily arise only in particular cases. Conclusion The Income-tax recovery framework gives substantial powers to the Revenue, but those powers operate within a prescribed statutory framework. A taxpayer receiving a demand should first examine: whether the demand itself is correct; when the statutory payment period expires; whether rectification or appeal is required; whether a separate stay application should be filed; and whether extension of time or instalments should be requested. Filing an appeal does not automatically stop recovery. A taxpayer intending to contest the demand should therefore specifically address the stay of recovery. For stay purposes, 20% has been the existing administrative benchmark, while the Union Budget 2026-27 has proposed reducing the pre-payment from 20% to 10%, calculated only on the core tax demand. In appropriate circumstances, complete stay without insisting upon a pre-deposit may also be possible. Once the assessee is in default and no effective stay exists, the Department’s powers are not confined merely to attachment of a bank account. Recovery may extend to bank deposits, fixed deposits, debtors, customers, rent, salary, other receivables, refunds, movable property and, through the TRO, immovable property as well. Accordingly, every recovery matter should ultimately be examined by asking three questions: 1. Is the underlying demand legally payable or disputed? 2. Is there an effective stay, instalment arrangement or other protection against recovery? 3. Has the Department proceeded against the relevant money or asset through the correct statutory power and authority? A proper examination of these questions is essential before concluding whether a particular recovery action is legally sustainable. ****** For any query, clarification, or detailed professional consultation in relation to Income Tax or GST matters — particularly notices, assessments, litigation, legal proceedings, or tax demands — you may get in touch with us at the details mentioned Mobile: +91-9818640458 | Email: [email protected] Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under income tax act 1961Income Tax Act 2025 Author Info Name: CA VARUN GUPTA Qualification: CA in Practice Company: VARUN AMITA GUPTA & CO. Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 98 View full profile → More from CA VARUN GUPTA When Can GST Officers Visit Business Premises? GST Powers Explained September 10, 2026 GST Registration Cancellation: Reasons, Procedure, Retrospective Impact & Compliance September 10, 2026 Suspension of GST Registration: Causes, Effects and Compliance Requirements September 4, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Supreme Court Upholds Quashing of Time-Barred Section 153C Notices September 12, 2026 Pending Interest Writ Eligible Under Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024: P&H HC September 12, 2026 Gujarat HC Grants 6% Interest on Delayed Vivad Se Vishwas Refund September 12, 2026 Explained Temporary Unloading Insufficient to Sustain KVAT Penalty: Karnataka HC September 12, 2026 Bombay HC Quashes TPO Order for Failure to Serve Mandatory SCN September 12, 2026 Delhi HC Quashes TDS Demand on Employee for Employer’s Non-Deposit September 12, 2026