Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd., a prominent pharmaceutical company, has scheduled the release of its financial results for the second quarter and the half-year ending 30 September 2026. The announcement is set for Friday, 23 October 2026, following a board meeting. The company, listed on multiple stock exchanges including BSE, NSE, NYSE, and NSE IFSC, will provide a comprehensive overview of its financial performance during this period. The Hyderabad-based company has outlined a series of events to accompany the release of its financial results. A press meet presentation will be made available on the company’s official website, www.drreddys.com, and through stock exchange platforms. Additionally, an earnings call has been scheduled for 19:30 IST (10:00 AM ET) on the same day. This call will offer stakeholders an opportunity to gain insights directly from the company’s management regarding the financial performance and strategic direction. For those interested in participating in the earnings call, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories has provided a pre-registration link to facilitate access. The audio and transcript of the call will subsequently be accessible on the company’s website and through stock exchange channels, ensuring transparency and broad dissemination of information. Analysts and investors will closely monitor the upcoming release of Dr. Reddy’s financial results, as it will provide critical insights into the company’s operational efficiency and market strategies amid evolving global pharmaceutical dynamics. The earnings call is expected to shed light on the company’s performance metrics and future outlook, contributing to informed decision-making in the investment community. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under NSE Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Airtel introduces free roaming on all postpaid plans October 7, 2026 Sun Pharma establishes endowed professorship to advance dermatologic care October 6, 2026 Godrej Consumer Products Opens New Manufacturing Facility in Indonesia October 6, 2026 Mphasis extends collaboration with Social Security Scotland in £35.4 million deal October 6, 2026 Lupin unveils world’s first fixed-dose triple combination drug for COPD in India October 6, 2026 Glenmark Therapeutics launches new pump packs for Adapalene Gel USP, 0.1% in the USA October 6, 2026