Summary: Choosing between Form 10B and Form 10BB requires first determining whether the institution is statutorily required to furnish an audit report. Registration under section 12AB does not itself make either form mandatory every year. Once audit applies, the form is selected through three tests under Rules 16CC and 17B: whether total income exceeds Rs 5 crore, whether any foreign contribution was received during the previous year, and whether any income was applied outside India. A yes to any one test requires Form 10B; only where all three answers are no does Form 10BB apply. The Rs 5 crore test concerns total income rather than gross receipts. Foreign contribution and overseas application have no minimum monetary threshold under the selection rule. The applicable audit report must be furnished by the specified date, and electronic filing is complete only after the report is submitted and accepted through the prescribed process. Filing late or furnishing the wrong form may result in denial of exemption during processing under section 143(1). Circular No. 2/2024 provided specific relief for certain wrong-form filings for AY 2023-24, while Circular No. 16/2024 provides the current administrative framework for condonation of delay in Forms 9A, 10, 10B and 10BB. A disciplined year-end review of the exemption provision, audit threshold, form-selection tests, filing status and taxpayer acceptance can therefore prevent avoidable exemption disputes. Decoding Form 10B or Form 10BB Choosing between Form 10B and Form 10BB appears simple, yet an error at this stage can place the entire exemption claim of a charitable or religious institution at risk. The correct approach is to first determine whether a statutory audit report is required at all and, if it is, apply three objective tests. A yes to any one of those tests leads to Form 10B. Only when all three answers are no does Form 10BB apply. The distinction is not merely procedural. Form 10B is the comprehensive report prescribed for larger or internationally connected institutions, while Form 10BB is the shorter report for other auditees. Filing the wrong report, filing it late or failing to complete its electronic acceptance may result in denial of exemption at the stage of processing under section 143(1). The law, however, also provides a structured route for seeking condonation where the default arose from reasonable cause and produces genuine hardship. Table of Contents▸ The preliminary question whether audit is required The three decisive questions Question one the Rs 5 crore test Question two receipt of foreign contribution Question three application of income outside India A compact decision matrix Due date and completion of filing What happens if the report is late or the wrong form is filed The wrong form is not harmless compliance Condonation of delay A practical year end checklist Conclusion Show all 12 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); The preliminary question whether audit is required Registration under section 12AB does not, by itself, mean that every registered trust must file Form 10B or Form 10BB in every year. Undersection 12A(1)(b), tthe audit requirement arises where the total income of the trust or institution, computed without giving effect to sections 11 and 12, exceeds the maximum amount not chargeable to income tax. A comparable audit condition applies to funds, institutions, universities, educational institutions, hospitals and medical institutions covered by the specified approval-based sub-clauses of section 10(23C). This also means that the expression ‘institutions claiming exemption under section 10(23C)’ should not be used without qualification. The audit-report regime principally concerns institutions falling under sub-clauses (iv), (v), (vi) and (via). An educational or medical institution claiming automatic exemption under sub-clause (iiiad) or (iiiae), subject to its own statutory conditions, should not be casually brought within Form 10B or Form 10BB merely because section 10(23C) is mentioned in its return. The three decisive questions Once the audit requirement exists, Rules 16CC and 17B provide the form-selection mechanism. The accountant and the auditee should record the answer to each of the following questions before the report is assigned or prepared. No Question Result if yes 1 Does total income exceed Rs 5 crore? Form 10B 2 Was any foreign contribution received? Form 10B 3 Was any income applied outside India? Form 10B Decision rule: If the answer to any one question is yes, use Form 10B. If all three answers are no, use Form 10BB. Question one the Rs 5 crore test The rule uses the expression total income, not gross receipts or aggregate annual receipts. These expressions should not be treated as interchangeable. Total income for audit purposes is examined before giving effect to the relevant exemption provisions. Gross receipts may be a convenient screening figure, but the statutory selection must rest on the computation required by the Act and Rules. A working paper showing the threshold computation is therefore advisable, particularly where the figure is close to Rs 5 crore. Question two receipt of foreign contribution Receipt of any foreign contribution during the previous year triggers Form 10B; there is no monetary de minimis threshold in the form-selection rule. The expression foreign contribution carries the meaning assigned in section 2(1)(h) of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010. It is therefore unsafe to ask only whether the entity holds an FCRA registration. The correct enquiry is whether the receipt itself answers the statutory definition. The receipt, its donor, currency, remittance trail and FCRA treatment should be verified before concluding that Form 10BB applies. Question three application of income outside India If any part of the institution’s income has been applied outside India during the previous year, Form 10B becomes mandatory. Again, the rule does not prescribe a minimum amount. The accountant should examine overseas grants, payments to foreign beneficiaries, programme expenditure incurred abroad, foreign branches and reimbursements. A payment made from an Indian bank account does not cease to be an overseas application merely because the banking transaction originated in India. The substance and destination of the application must be examined. A compact decision matrix Total income Foreign contribution Income applied abroad Applicable report Above Rs 5 crore No No Form 10B Up to Rs 5 crore Yes No Form 10B Up to Rs 5 crore No Yes Form 10B Up to Rs 5 crore No No Form 10BB Due date and completion of filing The audit must be completed and the applicable report furnished on or before the specified date referred to in section 44AB, namely one month before the due date for furnishing the return under section 139(1). Therefore, 30 September is the usual date where the return is due on 31 October, but it should not be described as an unchangeable calendar date. Any statutory extension of the return or audit-report date must be separately examined. Electronic filing is complete only when the chartered accountant submits the report and the auditee accepts and verifies it through the permitted DSC or EVC process. A report remaining in the taxpayer’s worklist for acceptance is not a completed filing. The acknowledgement and final filing status should form part of the audit file. What happens if the report is late or the wrong form is filed Timely furnishing of the prescribed audit report is a condition attached to the exemption. Where Form 10B or Form 10BB is not filed by the due date, or the report furnished is not the prescribed form, CPC may disallow the exemption claimed in ITR 7 while processing the return under section 143(1). The Income Tax Department’s own ITR 7 guidance recognises this result and directs the assessee towards condonation and consequential rectification. The immediate consequences can include recomputation of taxable income, reduction of refund, creation of demand and interest under the applicable provisions. However, it is imprecise to state that the entire gross receipts are automatically taxed. The taxable income must be computed under the relevant statutory provisions, including section 13(10) or the corresponding proviso to section 10(23C), where applicable. The default also does not, by itself, mean automatic cancellation of section 12AB registration. There is no separate, automatic late fee prescribed merely because Form 10B or Form 10BB is filed after time. The real exposure is far more serious: loss of exemption for the year until appropriate relief is obtained. Other consequences may arise on their own facts, but they should not be mechanically attributed to every delayed audit report. The wrong form is not harmless compliance Filing Form 10BB where Form 10B is mandatory, or Form 10B where Form 10BB is prescribed, should not be assumed to satisfy the statute. CBDT granted a specific relaxation through Circular No. 2/2024 for Assessment Year 2023-24, allowing eligible institutions that had filed the wrong report by the stipulated date to furnish the correct report within the special extended period. That one-time relief demonstrates the problem; it is not a permanent rule that makes the two forms interchangeable. If the mistake is discovered before the due date, the correct report should be furnished or the available revision facility should be used immediately. If the correction occurs after the due date, the institution should proceed on the basis that the correct report is belated and evaluate the need for condonation. Condonation of delay CBDT Circular No. 16/2024 establishes the current administrative framework for condoning delay in Forms 9A, 10, 10B and 10BB for Assessment Year 2018-19 and subsequent years. For Form 10B or Form 10BB, the practical course is to furnish the report without further delay and submit a reasoned condonation application with supporting evidence. Issue Position under Circular No. 16/2024 Delay up to 365 days Application may be dealt with by the jurisdictional Principal Commissioner or Commissioner. Delay exceeding 365 days Application may be dealt with by the jurisdictional Principal Chief Commissioner, Chief Commissioner or Director General. Outer time limit The application must be made within three years from the end of the relevant assessment year. Merits test The authority must be satisfied that reasonable cause prevented timely filing and that genuine hardship exists. After condonation Seek giving effect or rectification so that the exemption claim and consequential demand are reconsidered. Condonation is discretionary, not automatic. The application should explain the chronology, identify the precise cause of delay, establish absence of mala fide conduct, demonstrate the hardship caused by denial of exemption and attach the filed audit report, acknowledgement, financial statements, ITR 7, intimation or demand notice and evidence supporting the stated cause. A generic plea of oversight is rarely as persuasive as a documented explanation. A practical year end checklist Confirm the precise exemption provision claimed in ITR 7 and the validity of registration or approval. Determine whether the statutory audit threshold is crossed before selecting either form. Prepare and retain the total-income computation used for the Rs 5 crore test. Obtain a written declaration regarding foreign contribution and verify it against bank records and FCRA information. Review all overseas payments and programmes for application of income outside India. Assign the correct form to the chartered accountant sufficiently before the due date. Reconcile Form 10B or Form 10BB with the audited financial statements and ITR 7. Ensure taxpayer acceptance and preserve the final acknowledgement rather than relying only on the CA submission status. If a default is discovered, file the correct report promptly and initiate condonation without waiting for CPC demand. Conclusion The choice between Form 10B and Form 10BB can be reduced to a disciplined sequence. First ask whether an audit report is statutorily required. If it is, ask whether total income exceeds Rs 5 crore, whether any foreign contribution was received and whether any income was applied outside India. One yes means Form 10B; three no answers mean Form 10BB. The more important professional lesson is that form selection, filing and taxpayer acceptance are part of the substantive exemption compliance, not a post-audit clerical exercise. A contemporaneous decision sheet and timely portal verification can prevent a technically strong trust from facing an avoidable tax demand. Where delay has already occurred, prompt filing, a well-evidenced condonation application and consequential rectification offer the proper remedial path. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Income tax departmentSection 12AB Author Info Name: CA Amresh Vashisht Qualification: CA in Practice Location: Meerut, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 177 View full profile → More from CA Amresh Vashisht Annual Crisis of 30th September Tax Audit Deadline September 10, 2026 EY’s 1% Success Fee: NCLT Flags ICAI Ethics Issue September 5, 2026 CA Firms and the ‘Peanut Earnings’ Trap: A Growth Roadmap August 25, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax CBDT Extends AY 2026-27 Tax Audit Date to 21 October 2026 September 28, 2026 Request for extension of Tax Audit and ITR filing deadlines for AY 2026–27 September 28, 2026 Leasing School Property Without Own Educational Activity Cannot Secure Section 12A Registration: ITAT Delhi September 28, 2026 High Court No-TDS Order Shields SBI From Section 201 Default on LFC: ITAT Rajkot September 28, 2026 Section 148A(d) Order After Limitation Makes Reassessment Void: ITAT Mumbai September 28, 2026 Reassessment Writ Dismissed as Statutory Appeal Was Already Pending Before CIT: Chhattisgarh HC September 28, 2026