Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13802 Case Name Shakeer Hussain Khan Vs State of Telangana (Telangana High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Telangana High Court Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Shakeer Hussain Khan Vs State of Telangana (Telangana High Court) Summary: The Telangana High Court disposed of a writ petition concerning cancellation of the petitioner’s GST registration by an order in Form GST REG-19 dated 31 August 2026. The order stated that the petitioner had filed a reply but had not submitted sales and purchase invoices with the relevant supporting documents. The petitioner approached the High Court seeking revocation of the cancellation. His counsel submitted that he had approached the Court within the period stipulated under Rule 23 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, and ultimately sought liberty to apply to the competent authority for revocation. Counsel for CBIC stated that such an application, accompanied by supporting documents, could be considered in accordance with law. The High Court granted the petitioner liberty to submit an online revocation application within the period stipulated under Rule 23. If technical reasons prevented online submission, he could submit it in physical form. The competent authority was directed to entertain the application and decide it in accordance with law. The Court did not itself revoke the cancellation or decide whether the petitioner’s documents were sufficient. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF TELANGANA HIGH COURT 2. The Goods and Services Tax (GST) registration certificate of the petitioner bearing No.36EJLPS6139A1ZO was cancelled vide impugned order passed in Form GST REG-19 dated 31.08.2026 on the ground that the petitioner has not submitted the sales and purchase invoices along with relevant supporting documents though he filed his reply. The petitioner has preferred the instant writ petition for revocation of cancellation of GST registration. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner has approached this Court within the period stipulated under Rule 23 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017 (for short, “the Rules”) for moving the competent authority for revocation of order of cancellation of the GST passed on 31.08.2026. 4. However, after arguing for some time, learned counsel for the petitioner seeks liberty to the petitioner to approach the competent authority for filing an application for revocation of the order of cancellation of registration and the same may be considered. 5. Learned Senior Standing Counsel for CBIC submits that the reason for cancellation of petitioner’s GST registration is on account of non-submission of sales and purchase invoices along with relevant supporting documents. However, if the petitioner approaches the competent authority with an application for revocation of the order of cancellation of registration along with the supporting documents, the same may be considered in accordance with law. 6. Having regard to the aforesaid facts and circumstances, we are inclined to allow liberty to the petitioner to approach the competent authority within the period stipulated under Rule 23 of the Rules for submission of an application for revocation of cancellation of GST registration online and if it is not being accepted for any technical reasons then to submit it in physical form. The competent authority would entertain it and take a decision thereon in accordance with law. 7. The instant writ petition is accordingly disposed of. There shall be no order as to costs. Miscellaneous applications pending, if any, shall stand closed. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Registrationhigh court judgments Author Info Name: ADV AKRUTI GOYAL (CA) Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: ADV AKRUTI GOYAL, ADVOCATE AND LEGAL CONSULTANT Location: Hyderabad, Telangana Articles Published: 247 View full profile → More from ADV AKRUTI GOYAL (CA) GST Cancellation Appeal Allowed With Delay Condonation Plea: Telangana HC September 24, 2026 GST Portal Communication Facility for Supplier-Recipient Document Issues September 24, 2026 Telangana HC Allows Appeal Against Section 73 Demand After Consultant Lapse September 19, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Refund Deficiency Memo Invalid Beyond Rule 90(2) Scope: Kerala HC September 24, 2026 What Counts as a Supply? Decoding Section 7 and GST Taxable Event September 24, 2026 Constitutional Foundation of GST: Articles, Powers & Cooperative Federalism September 24, 2026 10% GST Penalty Pre-Deposit Not Required When Tax Also Demanded: Madras HC September 24, 2026 Manual GSTR-3B Filing Permitted After Best Judgment Assessment: AP HC September 24, 2026 Kerala HC Quashes ITC Denial for Returns Filed Before Section 16(5) Cutoff September 24, 2026