Table of Contents▸ Ganpati Bappa Morya! But First, Remove These Tax Vighnas Before 30th September GST Compliance During Ganeshotsav Sponsorship and Reverse Charge Mechanism Income Tax Deduction for Ganesh Mandal Donations CSR Expenditure and Income Tax Tax Audit Compliance and Section 271B Final Lesson for Taxpayers Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Ganpati Bappa Morya! But First, Remove These Tax Vighnas Before 30th September Summary: Arjuna and Krishna discuss the tax lessons that taxpayers and businesses can learn from Ganesh Chaturthi, focusing on GST, Income Tax and Tax Audit compliance. The discussion explains that mandap-keeper services, tent-house rentals, decorators and sound-light contractors generally provide taxable services liable to GST at 18%, subject to the applicable registration requirements, and highlights the risks of engaging suppliers who operate without GST registration or proper invoices. It further explains the treatment of sponsorship payments made by companies to Ganesh Mandals where banners are displayed in return, describing such arrangements as sponsorship services and stating that GST is payable under the Reverse Charge Mechanism by the company receiving the benefit. On Income Tax, the discussion covers Section 80G deductions for eligible donations, the conditions relating to registration and approval, the restriction on cash donations above Rs. 2,000, and the position stated for taxpayers opting for the new tax regime under Section 115BAC. The discussion also addresses corporate CSR expenditure, referring to Explanation 2 to Section 37(1), while noting that a separate Section 80G deduction may require case-by-case consideration. Finally, it highlights the approaching 30th September Tax Audit due date and the consequences stated under Section 271B for failure to file the Tax Audit Report, concluding with the broader lesson that devotion and tax compliance should go hand in hand and that taxpayers should maintain proper GST registration, TDS deductions, donation receipts and Tax Audit records. GST Compliance During Ganeshotsav Arjuna (Fictional Character): Krishna, today the whole country will welcome Ganpati Bappa with great devotion. Ganesh Chaturthi is a festival of joy, but as a taxpayer, can we also learn something from Bappa about GST and Income Tax? Krishna (Fictional Character): Arjuna, absolutely! Lord Ganesha is worshipped as “Vighnaharta” the remover of obstacles and also as the deity of wisdom and new beginnings. Every year, lakhs of Ganesh Mandals are set up, idols are purchased, pandals are erected, sponsorships are collected, and prasad is distributed. Behind all this devotion, GST, Income Tax and Tax Audit quietly follow the festival everywhere and if ignored, they can themselves become “vighna” (obstacles) for Mandals and businessmen alike! Arjuna (Fictional Character): Krishna, mandaps, decoration, sound and lighting all of these costs lakhs of rupees every year. What about GST on these services? Krishna (Fictional Character): Arjuna, mandap-keeper services, tent house rentals, decorators, and sound-light contractors are all suppliers of taxable services, generally liable to GST at 18%. Once a contractor’s turnover crosses the registration threshold, proper invoices must be issued. Many small decorators and tent-house owners still work informally without GST registration or bills creating risk both for them and for the Mandals or businesses hiring them. Sponsorship and Reverse Charge Mechanism Arjuna (Fictional Character): Krishna, and what about sponsorship? Many companies put up big banners near mandaps during Ganeshotsav in exchange for donations. Is that also taxable? Krishna (Fictional Character): Arjuna, here lies a big surprise for businessmen! When a company gives money to a Ganesh Mandal and, in return, gets its banner displayed, this is legally treated as a “sponsorship service” provided by the Mandal to the company and not a pure donation. Under GST law, tax on sponsorship services is payable under Reverse Charge Mechanism (RCM) meaning the company receiving the advertisement benefit, and not the Mandal, is liable to pay GST on it! Businessmen often overlook this and later face demand notices with interest and penalty for not discharging RCM liability on such “sponsorship” payments. Income Tax Deduction for Ganesh Mandal Donations Arjuna (Fictional Character): Krishna, now tell me about Income Tax. If someone donates to a Ganesh Mandal, can they claim deduction like other charitable donations? Krishna (Fictional Character): Arjuna, deduction under Section 80G is available only if the Mandal or Trust running the Ganeshotsav is registered under Section 12A and holds a valid 80G approval and even then, generally only 50% of the donation qualifies, subject to the overall limit. Cash donations above Rs. 2,000 are not eligible for deduction at all, so devotees putting large cash amounts in the collection box lose the tax benefit. And here is the real catch for salaried taxpayers if you have opted for the new tax regime under Section 115BAC, deduction under Section 80G is not available at all! Bappa’s blessings are unconditional, but the tax deduction on your donation certainly comes with conditions. CSR Expenditure and Income Tax Arjuna (Fictional Character): Krishna, what about companies that spend on Ganeshotsav as part of their CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility)? Krishna (Fictional Character): Arjuna, this is an important point for corporate taxpayers. CSR expenditure, even if genuinely spent on community welfare during Ganeshotsav, is specifically disallowed as a business expense under Explanation 2 to Section 37(1) of the Income Tax Act. In some cases, if the same contribution also happens to qualify under Section 80G, a separate 80G deduction may be examined but this needs careful case by case verification, since certain notified funds are specifically excluded from this benefit. Many companies get confused between “CSR expense” and “80G donation” and end up either claiming a wrong deduction or missing out on a legitimate one. Tax Audit Compliance and Section 271B Arjuna (Fictional Character): Krishna, and while we are all busy celebrating, hardly 15 days are left for the Tax Audit due date of 30th September! What happens to all these vighnas if they are ignored till then? Krishna (Fictional Character): Arjuna, that is exactly when the biggest vighna of all arrives the “Vighna of the Tax Audit Notice”! With barely 15 days left before the 30th September due date, if the Tax Audit Report itself is not filed by 30th September, Section 271B imposes a penalty of 0.5% of total sales, turnover or gross receipts, up to a maximum of Rs. 1,50,000! What could easily have been avoided in advance, if ignored in this shrinking window, turns into a costly obstacle the moment the due date passes, along with interest and penalty. Final Lesson for Taxpayers Arjuna (Fictional Character): Krishna, what is the final lesson from this Ganesh Chaturthi for every taxpayer? Krishna (Fictional Character): Arjuna, just as Bappa is invited home with a proper “sthapana” (installation) and bid farewell through a disciplined “visarjan” (immersion), every taxpayer must welcome the financial year with proper tax planning and bid farewell to it only after complete and correct compliance. Devotion and diligence must go hand in hand. Celebrate Ganeshotsav with full joy and faith but keep your GST registration, TDS deductions, donation receipts, and Tax Audit records equally in order. Only then will Bappa truly remove all “vighnas” both spiritual and financial from your path! Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: Umesh Sharma Qualification: CA in Practice Company: R.B. Sharma and Co Location: Aurangabad, Maharashtra Articles Published: 551 View full profile → More from Umesh Sharma Income Tax & GST Dahi Handi: Five Layers of the Tax Pyramid September 7, 2026 ITR Filing Deadline: Six Checks Before 31 August 2026 for AY 2026-27 August 31, 2026 Are Raksha Bandhan Gifts Received by a Sister Taxable? August 24, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Delhi HC Directs Biometric Aadhaar Authentication for Every GST Registration September 13, 2026 Delhi High Court Directs One-Week Decision on Withheld IGST Refund September 13, 2026 GST Recovery Barred while Statutory Period to Approach GSTAT still Available: Madras HC September 13, 2026 SC drops Rs. 363 crores GST Demand against Vodafone Idea Post-Merger September 13, 2026 Biometric Aadhaar Authentication Mandatory for New GST Registrations: Delhi HC September 13, 2026 Fraud Across Financial Years: Case for Bunched SCNs Under CGST Act September 12, 2026