Summary: UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund is an open-ended passive equity index scheme that tracks the Nifty Next 50 TRI, giving investors exposure to 50 companies that rank immediately after the Nifty 50 universe under the index methodology. UTI Mutual Fund’s current scheme page, with fund facts dated 31 August 2026, reports month-end AUM of ₹7,546.56 crore, minimum investment of ₹1,000, Direct Plan TER of 0.42% and Regular Plan TER of 0.87%. Exit load is nil. The scheme was launched on 28 June 2018 and is classified as Very High risk. One-year daily rolling tracking error was reported at 0.04% for the Direct Plan and 0.05% for the Regular Plan as on 9 September 2026. For Indian tax purposes, being an equity-oriented mutual fund, qualifying short-term capital gains are generally taxed at 20% and qualifying long-term capital gains at 12.5% above the aggregate statutory threshold of ₹1.25 lakh, subject to the conditions of the Income-tax Act, 2025 and the law applicable on the transfer date. The scheme offers diversified exposure beyond the Nifty 50 but remains fully exposed to equity-market volatility and can experience sharper movements than a large-cap Nifty 50 portfolio. Table of Contents▸ What Is UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund? Current Scheme Facts Investment Strategy and Portfolio Characteristics Direct Plan vs Regular Plan Exit Load and Liquidity Riskometer and Principal Risks Indian Income-Tax Treatment for Tax Year 2026-27 Short-term capital gains Long-term capital gains SIP investments Switches Losses and return reporting SEBI and Mutual Fund Regulatory Position Historical Performance: How It Should Be Read Practical Checks Before Investing or Redeeming FAQs Key Takeaways Show all 17 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); What Is UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund? UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund is a passive index fund managed by UTI Mutual Fund. Its underlying benchmark is the Nifty Next 50 Total Return Index (TRI). The Nifty Next 50 comprises 50 companies from the Nifty 100 after excluding the constituents of the Nifty 50, subject to the index provider’s methodology and periodic rebalancing. The scheme does not follow an active stock-selection strategy. Its objective is to replicate the underlying index as closely as practicable, subject to expenses, cash holdings, portfolio implementation and tracking error. Passive management therefore reduces active fund-manager selection decisions but does not eliminate investment risk. Current Scheme Facts Particular Current verified position Scheme UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund Category Index Fund / Equity Launch date 28 June 2018 Benchmark Nifty Next 50 TRI Month-end AUM ₹7,546.56 crore as at 31 August 2026 Monthly average AUM ₹7,516.97 crore as at 31 August 2026 Minimum investment ₹1,000 Direct Plan TER 0.42% per annum Regular Plan TER 0.87% per annum Exit load Nil Riskometer Very High Facilities SIP / SWP / STP Fund Manager Sharwan Kumar Goyal Scheme facts above are based on UTI Mutual Fund’s current scheme information available in September/October 2026. TER, AUM, portfolio and other scheme data change periodically and should be rechecked before a transaction. Investment Strategy and Portfolio Characteristics Passive replication The fund seeks to hold securities corresponding to the Nifty Next 50 index in substantially similar weights. Portfolio changes therefore principally follow index rebalancing, corporate actions, subscriptions/redemptions and operational requirements rather than discretionary views on individual companies. Exposure beyond the Nifty 50 The underlying universe contains companies outside the Nifty 50 but within the broader large-cap Nifty 100 universe. This can provide exposure to businesses that may later enter the Nifty 50, but index inclusion is not assured and investors should not treat the scheme as a portfolio of guaranteed future Nifty 50 entrants. Tracking error UTI reported one-year daily rolling tracking error of 0.04% for the Direct Plan and 0.05% for the Regular Plan as on 9 September 2026. Tracking error measures variability in the difference between scheme and benchmark returns. Tracking difference, expenses, cash balances, rebalancing and transaction costs can cause actual scheme returns to differ from the index. Direct Plan vs Regular Plan The underlying investment portfolio is common to the scheme, but Direct and Regular Plans have different expense structures. As at 31 August 2026, UTI reported TER of 0.42% for Direct and 0.87% for Regular. A lower TER reduces expense drag, but the appropriate plan depends on the investor’s distribution/advisory arrangement and circumstances. TER can change within regulatory limits and must be checked on the AMC’s current disclosure page. Exit Load and Liquidity The current UTI scheme page states Nil exit load. Absence of exit load does not mean absence of market risk or tax consequences. A redemption or switch can crystallise a capital gain or loss, and the redemption value depends on the applicable NAV and scheme rules. Riskometer and Principal Risks The scheme is classified as Very High risk. Important risks include equity-market risk, volatility, concentration arising from index construction, sector exposure, tracking error, index-rebalancing risk and liquidity/market-impact risk. The Nifty Next 50 can behave differently from the Nifty 50 and may experience substantial drawdowns. Passive investing does not protect capital. The AMC does not promise that the scheme will exactly reproduce benchmark returns, and neither principal nor returns are assured. Indian Income-Tax Treatment for Tax Year 2026-27 The Income-tax Act, 2025 applies from 1 April 2026. For an equity-oriented mutual fund satisfying the statutory conditions, the current framework substantially continues the post-23 July 2024 equity capital-gains regime. Short-term capital gains Where units qualify for the special equity-oriented-fund regime and are held for not more than the prescribed 12-month period, qualifying short-term capital gains are generally taxable at 20%, plus applicable surcharge and Health and Education Cess, subject to the statutory conditions including applicable securities transaction tax requirements. Long-term capital gains Where the qualifying equity-oriented mutual fund units are held for more than 12 months, qualifying long-term capital gains are generally taxable at 12.5% on the aggregate amount exceeding the statutory threshold of ₹1.25 lakh for the relevant tax year, subject to the applicable provisions and conditions. For a practical discussion of the current equity LTCG framework, see TaxGuru’s article I Sold Listed Shares & Made INR 3 Lakh Profit – How Is LTCG Taxed Now? TaxGuru has also discussed the broader capital-gains framework under the 2025 Act in Capital Gains under New Income-tax Act, 2025 for Tax Period 2026-27. SIP investments Each SIP instalment represents a separate acquisition of units. Cost and holding period therefore need to be tracked lot-wise when units are redeemed. FIFO and other applicable statutory/operational rules should be applied to the actual transaction data. Switches A switch from one scheme or plan to another can constitute a redemption/transfer for tax purposes even when the investor does not receive money in the bank account. Investors should not assume that an intra-AMC switch is tax-neutral. Losses and return reporting Capital losses are subject to statutory set-off and carry-forward conditions, including timely return filing where required. Investors should reconcile AMC/capital-gains statements, AIS/TIS information, broker or platform records and bank entries before filing the income-tax return. SEBI and Mutual Fund Regulatory Position The scheme operates within the SEBI mutual fund regulatory framework and is subject to scheme information, portfolio, NAV, TER, riskometer and other disclosure requirements. Investors should use the latest Scheme Information Document, Key Information Memorandum, factsheet and AMC disclosures rather than relying on an older snapshot. The riskometer is not a prediction of returns. It is a regulatory risk-classification tool and should be read together with the scheme’s investment objective, benchmark, portfolio and individual risk capacity. Historical Performance: How It Should Be Read UTI’s current scheme page displays historical scheme and SIP performance and expressly states that returns are neither assured nor guaranteed. Historical returns depend heavily on the selected start/end dates and should not be extrapolated into future returns. Past performance does not guarantee future performance. Practical Checks Before Investing or Redeeming Read the latest SID, KIM, factsheet and addenda. Verify the current TER rather than relying on an old expense ratio. Understand that the Riskometer classification is Very High. Compare tracking difference and tracking error, not merely headline returns. Consider whether Nifty Next 50 exposure duplicates holdings elsewhere in the portfolio. Keep lot-wise records of SIP investments for capital-gains computation. Evaluate tax consequences before redemption or switching. Do not treat nil exit load as equivalent to nil financial risk. FAQs 1. What does UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund invest in? It passively tracks the Nifty Next 50 TRI and seeks to replicate the securities and weights of the underlying index, subject to tracking error and operational requirements. 2. What is the minimum investment? UTI’s current scheme page states a minimum investment of ₹1,000. 3. What is the current TER? As at 31 August 2026, UTI reported TER of 0.42% for the Direct Plan and 0.87% for the Regular Plan. TER can change and should be verified before investing.. 4. Is there an exit load? The current scheme page states that exit load is nil. Redemption can nevertheless have capital-gains tax consequences and remains subject to market-linked NAV. 5. Is the fund low risk because it is an index fund? No. UTI classifies the scheme as Very High risk. Passive management removes neither equity-market volatility nor the possibility of capital loss. 6. How are long-term gains taxed? Subject to the statutory conditions applicable to equity-oriented mutual funds, qualifying gains on units held for more than 12 months are generally taxed at 12.5% above the aggregate ₹1.25 lakh statutory threshold, plus applicable surcharge and cess. 7. How are SIP units taxed? Each SIP instalment is a separate acquisition. Its cost and holding period must therefore be determined separately when the corresponding units are redeemed. 8. Does nil exit load make a switch tax-free? No. Exit load and income tax are separate. A switch can constitute a taxable transfer/redemption even when no exit load is charged. Key Takeaways UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund tracks the Nifty Next 50 TRI through a passive strategy. Month-end AUM was ₹7,546.56 crore as at 31 August 2026. TER was 0.42% Direct and 0.87% Regular as at 31 August 2026. Minimum investment is ₹1,000 and current exit load is nil. The scheme is classified as Very High risk. One-year daily rolling tracking error was 0.04% Direct and 0.05% Regular as on 9 September 2026. Equity-oriented mutual fund tax treatment must be applied under the Income-tax Act, 2025 and the conditions applicable on the actual transaction date. Past performance does not guarantee future returns. ***** Disclaimer: This article is solely for general informational and educational purposes. It does not constitute investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice and is not a recommendation, solicitation or endorsement to invest in, redeem, switch or hold units of UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund or any other mutual fund. Mutual fund investments are subject to market risks, including possible loss of capital. Investors must read the latest Scheme Information Document, Key Information Memorandum, Statement of Additional Information, factsheet, addenda and other applicable scheme documents carefully. NAV, portfolio, TER, risk classification, tax treatment and regulatory requirements may change. Past performance does not guarantee future performance. Tax consequences depend on the investor’s facts, residential status, transaction dates and the law applicable at the relevant time. Readers should independently verify current scheme information, tax law and regulatory requirements and consult an appropriate SEBI-registered investment adviser and/or tax, legal or accounting professional before acting. TaxGuru is not the mutual fund, AMC, distributor, broker or investment adviser merely by publishing this article. TaxGuru, its owners, management, editors, authors, employees and associated persons accept no responsibility or liability for any loss, damage, consequence, decision or action arising directly or indirectly from reliance on or use of this article or any information contained in it. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Mutual Fund Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,886 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Section 28 Customs Demand Does Not Require Prior Challenge to Self-Assessment: CESTAT Ahmedabad October 3, 2026 GST Hearing Notices Should Also Be Sent by SMS or Email: Madhya Pradesh HC October 3, 2026 Calcutta HC Sets Aside GST Orders Where Notice on Additional Portal Was Overlooked October 3, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance Aurobindo Pharma secures USFDA approval for Perampanel tablets in multiple strengths October 3, 2026 Jaguar Land Rover reports robust sales growth in Q2 FY27 October 3, 2026 How to Start Investing as a Beginner October 2, 2026 Bitcoin (BTC): How It Works and Indian Tax & Compliance Position October 2, 2026 IFSCA Extends CMI KMP & Employee Certification Deadline to 31 December 2026 October 1, 2026 Bombay High Court reinstates de-registration and promoter change for Mahalaxmi project October 1, 2026