Inter-Corporate Loans Under GST: Taxability, Valuation & Cross-Statutory Compliance Summary: Inter-corporate financial transactions face regular scrutiny from tax authorities following recent circulars, legal precedents, and advance rulings. Managing Inter-Corporate Loans (ICLs)—financial accommodations or advances extended between companies within the same corporate group—requires balancing GST compliance with corporate law governance under the Companies Act, 2013. While pure interest payments are exempt or excluded from GST, administrative fees and interest-free arrangements create compliance risks that demand coordination between tax and secretarial teams. Under Section 7 of the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act, 2017, read with Schedule II, money and securities are excluded from goods, while services relating to the use of money for separate consideration can fall within the scope of services. Notification No. 12/2017-Central Tax (Rate), Entry No. 27, exempts services by way of extending deposits, loans or advances where consideration is represented by interest or discount. In related-party transactions, Section 7(1)(c) read with Schedule I treats specified supplies between related entities as supplies even without consideration. CBIC Circular No. 218/12/2024-GST addresses loans provided by an overseas affiliate to its Indian affiliate or by a person to a related person where consideration is by way of interest or discount. Where taxable elements such as processing or administrative fees arise, Rule 28 becomes relevant, while Rules 42 and 43 govern the specified ITC-reversal consequences. The Companies Act, 2013 further regulates inter-corporate loans through Sections 185 and 186, including business-use requirements, interest-rate benchmarks, approval requirements and disclosure obligations. Accordingly, proper documentation, separate invoicing of taxable fees, appropriate interest benchmarking and reconciliation of corporate and GST records are central to compliance. Table of Contents▸ Inter-Corporate Loans: GST Treatment and Companies Act Compliance – GST Treatment of Inter-Corporate Loans 1. Scope of Supply: Money vs. Service The Exemption on Loan Interest Taxability Breakdown Related Party Loans & Interest-Free Inter-Corporate Loans (IFLs) Tax Department Stance vs. CBIC Clarification on IFLs GST Valuation Rules & Input Tax Credit (ITC) Impact Valuation of Related-Party Services (Rule 28) ITC Reversal Exemptions under Rules 42 & 43 Companies Act, 2013: Statutory Interplay with GST Compliance Benchmark Interest Rates (Section 186(7)) Business Use Mandates (Section 185) Approval Exemptions & Audit Trails (Section 186(3) & 186(4)) Practical Compliance Checklist Show all 14 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Inter-Corporate Loans: GST Treatment and Companies Act Compliance – GST Treatment of Inter-Corporate Loans Inter-corporate financial transactions face regular scrutiny from tax authorities following recent circulars, legal precedents, and advance rulings. Managing Inter-Corporate Loans (ICLs)—financial accommodations or advances extended between companies within the same corporate group—requires balancing GST compliance with corporate law governance under the Companies Act, 2013. While pure interest payments are exempt or excluded from GST, administrative fees and interest-free arrangements create compliance risks that demand coordination between tax and secretarial teams. So, what’s an Inter-Corporate Loan? It’s a financial accommodation, loan, or advance granted by one corporate entity (company) to another corporate entity, typically within the same group or corporate family (such as a holding company to its subsidiary or between fellow subsidiaries). 1. Scope of Supply: Money vs. Service Under Section 7 of the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act, 2017, read with Schedule II, “goods” explicitly excludes money and securities. The principal disbursement and repayment of an inter-corporate loan sit outside the scope of supply and carry zero GST liability. However, Section 2(102) defines “services” to include activities relating to the use of money or its conversion by cash or by any other mode, for which a separate consideration is charged. The Exemption on Loan Interest Notification No. 12/2017-Central Tax (Rate) (Entry No. 27) explicitly exempts: “Services by way of extending deposits, loans or advances in so far as the consideration is represented by way of interest or discount (other than interest involved in credit card services).” Taxability Breakdown Principal Amount: Outside the scope of GST (neither goods nor services). Pure Interest Income: A supply of service, but explicitly exempt from GST. Loan Processing / Facilitation Fees: Fully taxable at 18% GST (SAC 9971). Related Party Loans & Interest-Free Inter-Corporate Loans (IFLs) The primary GST risk arises when loans are extended between Related Persons (such as holding and subsidiary entities) or Distinct Persons under Section 25 of the CGST Act. Under Section 7(1)(c) read with Schedule I (Entry 2), any supply of goods or services between related entities in the course or furtherance of business is treated as a supply even if made without consideration. Inter-Corporate Loan Scenario GST Applicability Consideration Charged GST Valuation & Mechanism Principal Disbursement Out of Scope None Non-taxable Interest on Inter-Corporate Loan Exempt Interest Exempt via Entry 27, Notif. 12/2017 Processing / Management Fee Taxable Fee charged Taxable @ 18% (Forward Charge) Interest-Free Inter-Corporate Loan (IFL) Out of Scope / Exempt Zero Transaction in money; clarified via CBIC Cir. 218/12/2024 Tax Department Stance vs. CBIC Clarification on IFLs Tax officers have frequently argued that providing interest-free loans grants a measurable economic benefit to group entities, constituting a taxable service subject to open market valuation (e.g., benchmarked against prevailing bank lending rates). However, statutory interpretation and recent CBIC clarifications confirm: a) Transaction in Money: Extending capital is fundamentally a transaction in money. Without separate administrative services, the loan itself does not convert into a taxable service. b) CBIC Circular No. 218/12/2024-GST: Intra-group financial accommodations without separate service activity or fees do not attract GST under open market valuation rules. GST Valuation Rules & Input Tax Credit (ITC) Impact Valuation of Related-Party Services (Rule 28) When an inter-corporate loan includes a taxable element (such as loan processing fees or administrative charges), valuation must comply with Rule 28 of the CGST Rules, 2017: Second Proviso to Rule 28 (Full ITC Option): Where the borrowing entity is eligible for full Input Tax Credit (ITC), the value declared in the tax invoice is accepted as the Open Market Value. This allows entities to invoice nominal processing fees without triggering valuation disputes. ITC Reversal Exemptions under Rules 42 & 43 General Rule: Earning exempt turnover requires proportional reversal of common Input Tax Credit (such as rent and administrative overheads) under Rules 42 and 43. Non-Financial Corporate Carve-Out: Under Explanation 1(e) to Rule 43 (applied under Rule 42), for entities other than banking companies and NBFCs, interest income earned from loans or advances is excluded from exempt turnover calculations. Non-financial corporations do not suffer ITC reversals on corporate overheads simply because they earn interest from inter-corporate loans. Companies Act, 2013: Statutory Interplay with GST Compliance While taxability falls under the CGST Act, GST authorities cross-examine loan arrangements against corporate governance mandates under the Companies Act, 2013. Benchmark Interest Rates (Section 186(7)) Section 186(7) prohibits companies from advancing loans at an interest rate lower than the prevailing yield of 1-year, 3-year, 5-year, or 10-year Government Securities (G-Sec) closest to the loan tenure. GST Impact: Aligning loan interest rates with Section 186(7) provides tax protection. It demonstrates to GST authorities that the interest rate reflects a statutory benchmark, preventing attempts to recharacterize part of the transaction as an un-invoiced, disguised service under Schedule I. Business Use Mandates (Section 185) Section 185 strictly regulates loans to entities in which directors are interested. However, loans granted by a holding company to its Wholly-Owned Subsidiary (WOS) are exempt, provided the loan proceeds are utilized by the subsidiary for its principal business activities. GST Impact: Establishing that loan proceeds are utilized for “principal business activities” under Section 185 reinforces that the transaction is purely financial rather than a misclassified administrative service. Approval Exemptions & Audit Trails (Section 186(3) & 186(4)) Section 186(2) caps loans at 60% of paid-up capital + free reserves + securities premium (or 100% of free reserves + securities premium). The proviso to Section 186(3) exempts loans made to Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries from requiring a shareholder Special Resolution. GST Impact: Section 186(4) mandates complete disclosure of loans in financial statement notes. GST auditors cross-verify these disclosures and MBP-2 registers against GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B filings to confirm that interest income and associated management fees match reported figures. Practical Compliance Checklist a) Benchmark Interest to G-Sec Yields: Set inter-corporate loan interest rates to meet or exceed Section 186(7) thresholds to establish commercial legitimacy for both corporate law and GST exempt status. b) Unbundle Service Fees: Invoice processing charges, administrative costs, or legal cost reimbursements separately at 18% GST rather than embedding them into loan interest. c) Apply the Rule 42 Carve-Out: Confirm that non-financial entities exclude loan interest income from exempt turnover when computing monthly common ITC reversals. d) Leverage the Second Proviso to Rule 28: For related group entities eligible for full ITC, utilize the second proviso to Rule 28 when invoicing administrative fees. e) Reconcile Tax & Corporate Disclosures: Audit financial statement notes under Section 186(4) and MBP-2 registers against GST filings periodically to ensure complete alignment. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: CS Mayur Mazumdar Qualification: CS Location: Hyderābād, Telangana Articles Published: 17 View full profile → More from CS Mayur Mazumdar FEMA Section 9 Explained: Key Exemptions on Foreign Exchange Retention & Repatriation January 12, 2026 Need for Practicing Professionals in Certifications under Companies Act 2013 December 21, 2025 Steps to Apply for DIN & Appoint Foreign Nationals as Directors in India December 21, 2025 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Section 61 Scrutiny: What Proper Officer Can and Cannot Examine September 10, 2026 Section 122(1A) CGST Act: Prospective or Retrospective? September 10, 2026 When Can GST Officers Visit Business Premises? GST Powers Explained September 10, 2026 GST Registration Cancellation: Reasons, Procedure, Retrospective Impact & Compliance September 10, 2026 Notebook GST Exemption Squeezes Indian MSMEs Amid Cheap ASEAN Imports September 10, 2026 Rajasthan HC Restores Delayed GST Appeal, Directs Decision on Merits September 9, 2026