Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14354 Case Name Sandeep Kumar Goel Vs Union of India (Telangana High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Telangana High Court Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Sandeep Kumar Goel Vs Union of India (Telangana High Court) GST ITC Fraud: Telangana HC Grants Anticipatory Bail Where Evidence Already Secured; ₹94.96 Crore Alleged Fake ITC Case: Telangana HC Allows Anticipatory Bail; GST Arrest Cannot Be Mechanical When Custody Is Not Indispensable: Telangana HC;Telangana HC Grants Bail in GST ITC Case, Says Gravity Alone Cannot Curtail Liberty Summary: Telangana High Court granted anticipatory bail to the petitioners, partners of M/s. Vijay Industrial Needs LLP, in an investigation concerning alleged fraudulent availment and utilisation of Input Tax Credit under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. The Department alleged that the firm had fraudulently availed excess ITC of approximately Rs.94.96 crores, including nearly Rs.70.93 crores over and above the ITC reflected in GSTR-2A/2B, on invoices allegedly issued by fake or non-existent suppliers and without actual movement of goods. It was also alleged that multiple summons issued between June 2024 and June 2026 were not complied with and that custodial interrogation was necessary to trace the money trail, identify fictitious suppliers and beneficiaries, and investigate the alleged larger conspiracy. The High Court held that economic offences involving large-scale evasion of public revenue constitute a serious class of offences requiring a fair and effective investigation. However, gravity of the allegation by itself cannot justify curtailment of personal liberty. The power of arrest under Section 69 of the CGST Act is neither mechanical nor automatic and can be exercised only where the statutory requirement of “reasons to believe” is satisfied on objective and tangible material. Arrest is an investigative measure and not a punitive one. The Court therefore examined whether custodial interrogation was genuinely indispensable or whether the investigation could proceed effectively without depriving the petitioners of their liberty. The Court noted that searches had already been conducted and substantial documentary, financial and electronic material relating to the disputed transactions had been secured by the authorities. Petitioner No.1 had appeared in response to summons during earlier proceedings and his statement had been recorded. Although the Department alleged subsequent non-cooperation, the petitioners had communicated with the authorities, pursued legal remedies and unequivocally undertaken before the Court to appear whenever required and fully cooperate with the investigation. The Court further observed that adjudication of tax liability and criminal prosecution under Section 132 operate in distinct fields, but personal liberty cannot be examined solely from the standpoint of tax recovery. Referring to the principles governing arrest laid down in Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P., Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar, Siddharth v. State of Uttar Pradesh, Satender Kumar Antil v. CBI, P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement and Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement, the Court reiterated that the existence of a statutory power of arrest is distinct from justification for its exercise. It also considered GST-related precedents including Tarun Jain v. Directorate General of GST Intelligence, Shravan A. Mehra v. Union of India and Raghav Agrawal v. Directorate General of GST Intelligence, concerning the necessity of custodial interrogation where investigations substantially depend upon documentary evidence. Considering that the investigation was predominantly documentary, substantial records were already with the authorities, the petitioners were permanent residents, there was no material showing a real likelihood of abscondence or tampering with evidence, and the petitioners had undertaken to cooperate, the High Court found no compelling material demonstrating that custodial interrogation was indispensable at that stage. It accordingly allowed the criminal petition and granted anticipatory bail. The petitioners were directed to surrender before the competent authority on or before 30.07.2026 and, upon surrender or arrest, to be released on personal bonds of Rs.5,00,000 each with two sureties for a like amount each. They were also required to furnish contact details, appear whenever directed, cooperate with the investigation, not leave India without prior permission, refrain from influencing witnesses or tampering with evidence, and comply with Section 482(2) of the BNSS. The Court expressly preserved the investigating agency’s statutory power to arrest subsequently if circumstances warrant such action in accordance with law. Cases Discussed Tarun Jain v. Directorate General of GST Intelligence, 2021:DHC:3841 (Delhi High Court) — Relied upon by the petitioners and considered by the Court on the proposition that custodial interrogation may not be warranted where a GST investigation substantially rests on documentary evidence and the accused cooperates. Raghav Agrawal v. Commissioner of Central Tax and GST, Delhi North, 2024:DHC:7272-DB (Delhi High Court) — Relied upon on the requirement that necessity for custodial interrogation in GST proceedings must be independently established. P.V. Ramana Reddy v. Union of India, 2019 SCC OnLine TS 333 (Telangana High Court) — Relied upon by the petitioners regarding exercise of the power of arrest under Sections 69 and 132 of the CGST Act strictly in accordance with statutory requirements. Shravan A. Mehra v. Superintendent of Central Tax, (2019) 73 GST 105 (Karnataka High Court) — Relied upon concerning maintainability of anticipatory bail in an appropriate GST case and assessment of the necessity for custodial interrogation. Sapna Jain v. Union of India, 2019 SCC OnLine Bom 13064 — Cited in the rival submissions concerning anticipatory bail in GST offences and the requirement that relief be determined on the facts of the individual case. Daulat Samirmal Mehta v. Union of India, AIRONLINE 2021 BOM 516 (Bombay High Court) — Relied upon by the petitioners in support of protection against mechanical arrest in GST proceedings. Sri Hanumanthappa Pathrera Lakshmana v. State by Senior Intelligence Officer, DGGI, AIRONLINE 2020 KAR 1282 (Karnataka High Court) — Relied upon by the petitioners on anticipatory bail and the necessity for custodial interrogation in GST proceedings. Shanti Kiran India Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner, Trade & Tax Department, (2013) 57 VST 405 (Delhi High Court) — Relied upon by the petitioners for the proposition concerning denial of ITC to a bona fide purchaser on account of a seller’s default. P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2020) 13 SCC 791 (Supreme Court) — Relied upon by the Department on the seriousness of economic offences; the Court considered the corresponding requirement to balance investigative needs against personal liberty. Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P., (1994) 4 SCC 260 (Supreme Court) — Applied for the principle that lawful power to arrest is distinct from justification for exercising that power. Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar, (2014) 8 SCC 273 (Supreme Court) — Applied for the principle that arrest must be founded upon necessity rather than undertaken routinely or mechanically. Siddharth v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2022) 1 SCC 676 (Supreme Court) — Applied for the proposition that arrest is not mandatory merely because an investigation is pending where the accused has cooperated and relevant risks are absent. Satender Kumar Antil v. CBI, (2022) 10 SCC 51 (Supreme Court) — Applied for the principle that arrest should remain an exception where investigation can proceed effectively without custodial detention. Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2025) 1 SCC 1 (Supreme Court) — Referred to for the requirement that statutory power of arrest satisfy standards of legality, necessity and reasonableness. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF TELANGANA HIGH COURT 1. This Criminal Petition is filed under Section 482 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (for short, “BNSS”), seeking the relief of anticipatory bail. 2. The petitioners are shown as accused in File No. GEXCOM/AE/INV/GST/1449/2024-AE pending before the Senior Intelligence Officer (Anti-Evasion), Office of the Commissioner of Central Tax & Central Excise, Secunderabad GST Commissionerate, Hyderabad. 3. I have heard Mr. B. Chandrasen Reddy, learned Senior Counsel, argued on behalf of Mr. B. Vamshidhar Reddy, learned counsel for the petitioners and Mr. Dominic Fernandes, learned Senior Standing Counsel for Central Excise, Customs & Service Tax Department and DRI, appearing for respondent No.2. 4.1. Learned Senior Counsel appearing for the petitioners submits that the petitioners are the partners of M/s. Vijay Industrial Needs LLP, a firm engaged in the business of supplying stainless steel products and ferrous scrap, registered under the provisions of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (“CGST Act”). The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Visakhapatnam Zonal Unit, initiated an investigation alleging wrongful availment of Input Tax Credit (“ITC”) during the period from 15.05.2019 to 10.06.2024. 4.2. It is submitted that, though the petitioners extended full cooperation throughout the investigation, they are apprehending arrest pursuant to the summons issued under Section 70 of the CGST Act. He further submits that petitioner No.1 appeared before the investigating authority in compliance with the summons and voluntarily gave his statements on two occasions. Thereafter, by Order-in-Original dated 15.04.2026, the Additional Commissioner confirmed the proposed demand and imposed consequential penalties. It is submitted that the petitioners intend to avail the statutory remedy of appeal under Section 107 of the CGST Act, and the period of limitation for preferring such appeal is still subsisting. Thus, the issue relating to tax liability remains subject to the statutory appellate mechanism. 4.3. Learned Senior Counsel further submits that, the respondents had issued a fresh Show Cause Notice dated 07.04.2025 under Section 74(1) of the CGST Act proposing recovery of Rs.6,76,10,139/- towards the alleged wrongful availment of ITC, which was already determined by the State authority. It is contended that the issuance of fresh summons under Section 70 of the CGST Act, subsequent to the adjudication order, is arbitrary, unnecessary, and has given rise to a reasonable apprehension of arrest. 4.4. It is further submitted that petitioner No.2 holds only a 1% partnership interest in the LLP and has no role in its day-to-day management or business affairs. It is also stated that petitioner No.1 is suffering from serious medical complications following a brain stroke and is undergoing continuous medical treatment, while petitioner No.2 is attending to his medical needs. Any arrest at this stage would, therefore, cause undue hardship. 4.5. Learned Senior Counsel contends that allegations involving economic offences do not, by themselves, justify arrest as a matter of course. Arrest can be resorted to only where custodial interrogation is shown to be indispensable. The petitioners are permanent residents with an established place of business, and there is neither any likelihood of their absconding nor any possibility of their interfering with the investigation. It is further submitted that the petitioners, being purchasers, cannot be subjected to criminal prosecution merely on account of the alleged defaults of the supplier firms, in the absence of material demonstrating fraud, active collusion, or conscious involvement. It is lastly submitted that arrest in the facts of the present case would amount to an unwarranted infringement of the petitioners’ right to personal liberty. The petitioners undertake to appear before the investigating authority as and when required and to abide by any condition that may be imposed by this Court. 4.6. Learned Senior Counsel placed reliance on Tarun Jain v. Directorate General of GST Intelligence, 2021:DHC:3841, and Raghav Agrawal v. Commissioner of Central Tax and GST, Delhi North, 2024:DHC:7272-DB, wherein the Delhi High Court granted anticipatory bail in cases involving allegations of fraudulent availment of ITC, holding that arrest cannot be made as a matter of course and that the necessity of custodial interrogation must be established. Reliance is also placed on P.V. Ramana Reddy v. Union of India, 2019 SCC OnLine TS 333, wherein this Court observed that the power of arrest under Sections 69 and 132 of the CGST Act must be exercised strictly in accordance with the statutory requirements. 4.7. Reliance is further placed on Shravan A. Mehra v. Superintendent of Central Tax, (2019) 73 GST 105 (Kar.), Sapna Jain v. Union of India, 2019 SCC OnLine Bom 13064, Daulat Samirmal Mehta v. Union of India, AIRONLINE 2021 BOM 516, and Sri Hanumanthappa Pathrera Lakshmana v. State by Senior Intelligence Officer, DGGI, AIRONLINE 2020 KAR 1282,wherein the Karnataka and Bombay High Courts held that anticipatory bail is maintainable in appropriate GST offences, that arrest cannot be resorted to mechanically, and that the necessity of custodial interrogation must be assessed on the facts of each case. Learned Senior Counsel also relied upon the orders of this Court in Crl. P. No.120 of 2024 and Crl. P. Nos.10076 and 10318 of 2025, wherein anticipatory bail was granted having regard to the predominantly documentary nature of the evidence and the seizure of relevant records. Reliance is lastly placed on Shanti Kiran India Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner, Trade & Tax Department, (199) 2013 DLT 57, to contend that a bona fide purchaser cannot be denied ITC or subjected to adverse consequences solely on account of the seller’s default in the absence of fraud, collusion, or knowledge. 4.8. On the strength of the aforesaid decisions, it is submitted that the allegations are founded entirely on documentary and electronic records already in the custody of the investigating agency. The petitioners have cooperated with the investigation and have undertaken to continue doing so. Consequently, custodial interrogation is unwarranted and the petitioners are entitled to the relief of anticipatory bail. 5.1. Learned Senior Standing Counsel appearing for the respondent/Department opposed the petition and submitted that the petitioners, being partners of M/s. Vijay Industrial Needs LLP, are involved in a serious economic offence concerning the fraudulent availment and utilization of Input Tax Credit (ITC) under the provisions of the CGST Act, 2017, resulting in substantial loss to the Government revenue. It is further submitted that the present proceedings are independent of the earlier proceedings initiated by the DGGI, as they relate to fraud, willful misstatement or suppression of facts to evade GST. Consequently, the petitioners cannot contend that the matter already stands concluded or that the proceedings are confined merely to determination of tax liability. 5.2. It is submitted that, pursuant to a valid search authorization, the GST Anti-Evasion Team conducted a search under Section 67(2) of the CGST Act on 07.06.2024 at the business premises of M/s. Vijay Industrial Needs LLP. Initially, the premises were found locked and were subsequently opened by an employee of the firm, who informed the officers that petitioner No.1 was absent due to ill-health. During the search, it was noticed that the firm was engaged in the business of pipes, fittings and valves, while the invoices and computer records relating to the business were maintained at a different office. The officers further found that no stock register was maintained and invoices had not been issued in respect of certain cash sales. Four box files containing quotations and purchase orders were recovered and seized under Form GST INS-02 for the purpose of investigation. No other goods or documents were seized, and the search proceedings concluded peacefully at about 2:30 p.m. in the presence of independent witnesses. 5.3. Learned Senior Standing Counsel further submitted that the investigation disclosed several discrepancies in the business transactions of the firm. It is alleged that the petitioners fraudulently availed excess ITC amounting to approximately Rs.94.96 crores by claiming credit on the strength of invoices without actual receipt of goods and by relying upon invoices issued by fake or non-existent suppliers. According to the Department, excess ITC of nearly Rs.70.93 crores, over and above the ITC reflected in GSTR-2A/2B, was availed. It is further alleged that ITC was claimed on invoices issued by suppliers whose GST registrations had been retrospectively cancelled. The investigation also revealed that several invoices were unsupported by actual movement of goods or corresponding e-way bills, thereby indicating fraudulent availment of ITC. 5.4. It is further submitted that multiple summons were issued to the petitioners between June, 2024 and June, 2026, requiring their appearance before the competent authority and cooperation with the investigation. However, the petitioners failed to appear on each occasion and repeatedly sought adjournments on one ground or another. The respondent, therefore, dispute the petitioners’ contention that they had fully cooperated with the investigation. It is contended that custodial interrogation is necessary to ascertain the complete nature of the transactions, trace the money trail, verify the involvement of fake suppliers, identify the beneficiaries, and confront the petitioners with the material collected during the course of investigation. 5.5. It is further alleged that petitioner No.1 had earlier operated other firms involved in GST-related fraud and, after cancellation of their GST registrations, obtained fresh registrations in the names of new entities, indicating a recurring pattern of fraudulent conduct. Since the alleged fraudulent availment of ITC exceeds Rs.5 crores, the offences attract Sections 132(1)(c) and 132(1)(i) of the CGST Act and are cognizable and non-bailable by virtue of Section 132(5). Reliance is also placed on Section 135 of the CGST Act, which raises a statutory presumption regarding the existence of a culpable mental state. 5.6. It is further contended that a mere apprehension of arrest cannot constitute a valid ground for grant of anticipatory bail, particularly having regard to the magnitude of the alleged tax evasion and the necessity for an effective investigation. The medical condition pleaded by petitioner No.1 is stated to be insufficient to justify his continuous non-appearance before the investigating authority, especially when he is alleged to have been actively managing the affairs of the business. Considering the seriousness of the allegations, the quantum of the alleged fraudulent ITC, the petitioners’ conduct in evading summons, and the necessity for custodial interrogation, it is submitted that they are not entitled to the relief of anticipatory bail. 5.7. In support of the above submissions, learned Senior Standing Counsel relied upon P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2020) 13 SCC 791, wherein the Hon’ble Supreme Court held that economic offences constitute a distinct class and that the nature and gravity of the accusation, the magnitude of the offence, and the necessity for custodial interrogation are relevant considerations while deciding an application for anticipatory bail. Reliance was also placed on Tarun Jain v. Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Bail Application No.3771 of 2021, decided on 26.11.2021 (Delhi High Court), wherein it was observed that custodial interrogation is not necessary in every case, particularly where the accused cooperates with the investigation. It is, however, contended that the petitioners herein failed to cooperate despite repeated summons. 5.8. Reference was further made to Shravan A. Mehra v. Superintendent of Central Tax (Karnataka High Court) and Raghav Agrawal v. Commissioner of Central Tax and GST, Delhi, to contend that grant of anticipatory bail depends upon the facts of each case and the willingness of the accused to cooperate with the investigation. Reliance was lastly placed on Sapna Jain v. Union of India, wherein the Hon’ble Supreme Court held that there is no absolute rule for grant of anticipatory bail in GST offences and that each case must be decided on its own facts. On the strength of the aforesaid decisions, it is contended that, having regard to the seriousness of the allegations, the magnitude of the alleged fraudulent ITC, the petitioners’ non-cooperation, and the necessity for custodial interrogation, they are not entitled to the discretionary relief of anticipatory bail. 6. I have carefully considered the rival submissions and examined the material placed on record. 7. The allegations against the petitioners relate to the fraudulent availment and utilisation of ITC under the provisions of the CGST Act. According to the respondent-Department, the petitioners, being the Designated Partners of M/s. Vijay Industrial Needs LLP, fraudulently availed ITC on the strength of invoices purportedly issued by non-existent or fictitious suppliers, without any actual movement or supply of goods, thereby causing substantial loss to the public exchequer. It is alleged that the quantum of the wrongly availed ITC exceeds the threshold prescribed under Section 132(1)(c), read with Section 132(5), of the CGST Act, rendering the offence cognizable and non-bailable. 8. There can be no dispute that economic offences involving large-scale evasion of public revenue constitute a serious class of offences warranting a fair, thorough and effective investigation. Equally well settled, however, is the principle that the gravity of the allegation, by itself, cannot justify curtailment of personal liberty. The power of arrest under Section 69 of the CGST Act is neither mechanical nor automatic. It can be exercised only where the Commissioner has “reasons to believe” that the person has committed an offence specified under Section 132. The expression “reasons to believe” embodies a substantive statutory safeguard requiring objective satisfaction founded on tangible material and not on mere suspicion or allegations. 9. It is equally well settled that arrest is an investigative measure and not a punitive one. The mere existence of the power to arrest does not justify its exercise. Arrest must be shown to be necessary for the purposes of investigation, such as preventing abscondence, tampering with evidence, influencing witnesses or otherwise obstructing the course of justice. While exercising jurisdiction under Section 482 of the BNSS, this Court is, therefore, required to examine whether custodial interrogation is genuinely indispensable or whether the investigation can effectively proceed without depriving the accused of personal liberty. 10. The material placed on record further discloses that proceedings had earlier been initiated by the State GST Authorities in respect of substantially the same assessment period. According to the petitioners, during those proceedings, searches were conducted and the relevant books of account, invoices, e-way bills, banking records, computers, laptops and other connected records were either seized or examined by the authorities. It is further their case that petitioner No.1 appeared pursuant to statutory notices, cooperated with the investigation and furnished his statement. Thereafter, the DGGI initiated the present proceedings in respect of the same period. 11. The respondent-Department has clarified that the earlier proceedings initiated by the State GST Authorities were under Section 73 of the State GST Act, dealing with cases not involving fraud, wilful misstatement or suppression of facts, whereas the present proceedings arise under Section 74 of the CGST Act involving allegations of fraud and deliberate tax evasion. It is further contended that the DGGI is independently competent to investigate offences punishable under Section 132 of the Act. This distinction in the statutory scheme is beyond dispute. 12. At the same time, one significant circumstance remains undisputed. During both the earlier proceedings and the present investigation, searches have already been conducted and substantial documentary and electronic evidence relating to the transactions in question has been secured by the authorities. Thus, the primary evidentiary material on which the prosecution rests is already in the custody of the investigating agency. 13. The record further reveals that petitioner No.1 had appeared in response to summons issued under Section 70 of the CGST Act during the earlier proceedings and his statement was duly recorded. Although the Department contends that the petitioners subsequently failed to comply with repeated summons and did not extend full cooperation, it is equally evident that summons have been issued since June, 2024; the petitioners have addressed various communications to the authorities, pursued legal remedies available to them and consistently expressed apprehension of arrest. Before this Court, they have unequivocally undertaken to appear before the investigating officer whenever required and to cooperate fully with the investigation. 14. Another relevant circumstance is that, pursuant to the Order-in-Original confirming the tax demand, proceedings under Section 74(1) of the CGST Act have also been initiated. It is well settled that adjudication relating to tax liability and criminal prosecution under Section 132 operate in distinct fields and that the pendency of adjudicatory or appellate proceedings does not bar criminal prosecution. At the same time, the determination of tax liability remains subject to the statutory appellate mechanism. Therefore, while the pendency of adjudication cannot impede the criminal investigation, the issue of personal liberty cannot be examined solely from the standpoint of tax recovery. 15. The principles governing arrest have been authoritatively laid down by the Supreme Court in Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P., (1994) 4 SCC 260, wherein it was held that no arrest can be made merely because it is lawful to do so and that the existence of the power to arrest is distinct from the justification for its exercise. The same principle was reiterated in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar, (2014) 8 SCC 273, wherein the Supreme Court held that arrest must be founded on necessity and cannot be effected routinely or mechanically. Though rendered in the context of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the constitutional principles safeguarding personal liberty apply with equal force to statutory powers of arrest under special enactments. 16. In Siddharth v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2022) 1 SCC 676, the Supreme Court observed that arrest is not mandatory merely because investigation is pending and that where the accused has cooperated with the investigation and there is no likelihood of absconding or influencing witnesses, unnecessary arrest would offend constitutional guarantees. Likewise, in Satender Kumar Antil v. CBI, (2022) 10 SCC 51, the Supreme Court reiterated that arrest should remain an exception, particularly where the investigation can effectively proceed without custodial detention. 17. In P. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2020) 13 SCC 791, while recognising that economic offences constitute a distinct class requiring serious consideration, the Supreme Court nevertheless held that the gravity of the allegations cannot, by itself, justify denial of liberty and that the Court must balance the requirements of investigation with the fundamental right to personal liberty. More recently, the Constitution Bench in Arvind Kejriwal v. Directorate of Enforcement, (2025) 1 SCC 1, reiterated that the statutory power of arrest must satisfy the constitutional requirements of legality, necessity and reasonableness and that deprivation of liberty cannot be justified merely because the investigating agency possesses the power to arrest. 18. Similar principles have also been applied in GST prosecutions. In Tarun Jain v. Directorate General of GST Intelligence, the Delhi High Court held that where the investigation substantially rests upon documentary evidence already available with the Department and the accused undertakes to cooperate with the investigation, custodial interrogation may not be warranted merely because the allegations concern fraudulent availment of ITC. Likewise, in Shravan A. Mehra v. Union of India, the Karnataka High Court observed that GST offences are predominantly documentary in nature and that the necessity for custodial interrogation must be assessed on the facts of each case. In Raghav Agrawal v. Directorate General of GST Intelligence, the Delhi High Court reiterated that arrest in GST matters cannot be treated as a routine investigative tool and that the necessity for custodial interrogation must be independently established. 19. The seriousness of the alleged economic offence is undoubtedly a relevant consideration. Equally important, however, are the constitutional safeguards protecting personal liberty. Pre-trial detention cannot assume the character of punishment before conviction. While considering an application for anticipatory bail, the Court is required to balance the gravity of the accusation and the societal interest in an effective investigation against equally significant considerations, namely, the availability of evidence, the degree of cooperation extended by the accused, the likelihood of abscondence, the possibility of influencing witnesses or tampering with evidence, and, above all, the necessity for custodial interrogation. None of these considerations can be viewed in isolation. 20. The submission of the respondent-Department that custodial interrogation is necessary to trace the money trail, identify fictitious suppliers, ascertain the ultimate beneficiaries and unravel the larger conspiracy cannot be lightly brushed aside. These are undoubtedly legitimate objectives of a criminal investigation. At the same time, the existence of such objectives does not, by itself, establish that custodial interrogation is indispensable. It is not in dispute that summons have been issued to the petitioners since 2024. The petitioners have responded to the summons, pursued legal remedies available under law and have consistently expressed apprehension of arrest. The counter affidavit filed by the respondent indicates that the arrest of the petitioners is not presently contemplated, though it reserves liberty to effect arrest, if circumstances so warrant in future. The continued issuance of summons itself indicates that, at this stage, the investigating agency seeks the petitioners’ participation in the investigation rather than their immediate arrest. Before this Court, the petitioners have unequivocally undertaken to cooperate with the investigation and to appear whenever required. 21. Having regard to the fact that the alleged offences are punishable with imprisonment extending to five years, and bearing in mind the settled principles governing arrest in offences punishable with imprisonment of less than seven years, this Court is of the view that the power of arrest cannot be invoked as a matter of course. The object of arrest during investigation is to facilitate a fair and effective investigation and not to inflict punishment before guilt is established. Equally, it would not be appropriate for the investigating agency to secure the attendance or statement of an accused under the continuing apprehension of arrest and thereafter characterise such statement as voluntary. 22. The statutory power of arrest remains available to the investigating agency. If, during the course of investigation, circumstances subsequently arise necessitating the arrest of the petitioners, it shall be open to the competent authority to exercise such power strictly in accordance with law by recording the requisite reasons and following the procedure prescribed under the statute. Balancing the interests of the investigation with the petitioners’ right to personal liberty, this Court is of the considered opinion that interim protection deserves to be extended, without in any manner fettering the statutory discretion of the investigating agency to take appropriate action in accordance with law should subsequent circumstances so justify. It is clarified that the grant of anticipatory bail shall neither preclude nor impede the respondent-Department from exercising its statutory power of arrest in accordance with law, if subsequent facts and circumstances furnish valid grounds for such exercise. 23. In the facts of the present case, the investigation substantially centres around documentary, financial and electronic records which are already in the custody of the authorities. The petitioners are permanent residents; their identities, addresses and business establishments are known to the Department; there is no material to suggest that they have attempted to abscond or destroy evidence; and they have unequivocally undertaken to cooperate with the investigation. In these circumstances, the interests of the investigation can be adequately safeguarded by directing the petitioners to cooperate fully with the investigating agency and by imposing appropriate conditions to secure their continued participation in the investigation. 24. Insofar as petitioner No.2 is concerned, her plea that she holds only a one per cent partnership interest in the LLP and has no active role in its day-to-day management or financial affairs raises disputed questions of fact, which can only be examined during investigation and, if necessary, at trial. No final opinion on her role can, therefore, be expressed at this stage. Likewise, although the medical condition of petitioner No.1 does not, by itself, constitute an independent ground for grant of anticipatory bail, it remains a relevant circumstance while balancing the competing considerations of personal liberty and investigative necessity. 25. Considering the totality of the circumstances, namely, the predominantly documentary nature of the evidence, the fact that substantial records have already been secured by the investigating agency, the absence of any material indicating a real likelihood of abscondence or tampering with evidence, the willingness expressed by the petitioners to cooperate with the investigation, and the absence of any compelling material demonstrating that custodial interrogation is indispensable at this stage, this Court is of the considered opinion that the petitioners have made out a fit case for exercise of the discretionary jurisdiction. The interests of justice would be adequately safeguarded by granting anticipatory bail, subject to stringent conditions ensuring their continued cooperation with the investigation and their availability before the investigating agency as and when required. 26. Accordingly, the Criminal Petition is allowed. The petitioners/Accused shall be enlarged on anticipatory bail, subject to the following conditions: (A) The petitioners/Accused shall surrender before respondent No.2/Apprehending Authority/Authorized Officer, on or before 30.07.2026. Upon such surrender or in the event of arrest, respondent No.2/Authorized Officer/Investigating Officer shall release the petitioners/Accused on bail on execution of personal bonds for a sum of Rs.5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakh only) each, with two sureties for a like sum each, to the satisfaction of the said Officer. (B) The petitioners/Accused shall furnish their complete residential addresses, mobile numbers and other contact particulars to respondent No.2/Authorized Officer/Investigating Officer and shall promptly intimate any change(s) therein. (C) The petitioners/Accused shall appear before respondent No.2/Authorized Officer/Investigating Officer as and when directed for NTR,J the purpose of investigation and shall cooperate with the investigation in all respects. (D) The petitioners/Accused shall not leave India without obtaining prior permission from the jurisdictional Court concerned. (E) The petitioners/Accused shall not directly or indirectly induce, threaten, influence any person acquainted with the facts of the case, nor shall they tamper with prosecution evidence in any manner whatsoever. (F) The petitioners/Accused shall strictly comply with all the conditions contemplated under Section 482(2) of the BNSS. (G) Any willful breach or violation of any of the aforesaid conditions shall render the petitioners liable to appropriate proceedings before the jurisdictional Court, including cancellation of bail, in accordance with the provisions of the BNSS and other applicable law. 27. It is made clear that any observations made herein are confined solely to the adjudication of the present application for anticipatory bail and shall not be construed as an expression on the merits of the case. Pending miscellaneous applications, if any, shall stand closed. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgments Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,751 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Delhi HC Sets Aside Section 148 Notice for Non-Supply of Reassessment Information October 1, 2026 Vedic Education Not Religious Activity; Section 80G Approval Allowed: ITAT Chennai October 1, 2026 Seized Perishable Betel Nuts to Be Released After Ownership Verification: Gauhati HC October 1, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax ₹7.26 Crore ITC Demand: Section 16(2)(c) ITC Condition Constitutionally Valid: Delhi HC October 1, 2026 Rule 86A ITC Block Not Automatically Lifted Despite Fresh Hearing Opportunity: Karnataka HC October 1, 2026 Kerala HC Restores Time-Barred GST Appeal as Additional 2.5% Pre-Deposit Defect Is Curable October 1, 2026 57th GST Council Meeting: Registration, ITC and Process Reforms in Focus September 30, 2026 GST Appeal Allowed With Two-Week Protection From Garnishee Recovery: Telangana HC September 30, 2026 Delayed Appeal Against Ex-Parte GST Order Permitted: Telangana HC September 30, 2026