Summary: Customs duty exemptions are statutory concessions that permit specified goods to receive full or partial relief from customs duty subject to the requirements of the Customs Act, 1962, the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 and the applicable exemption notification. Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962 empowers the Central Government to grant exemptions in the public interest, either generally through notifications or in exceptional circumstances through special orders, and such exemptions may be subject to conditions to be fulfilled before or after clearance. An importer claiming an exemption must establish that the imported goods fall within the prescribed description and that applicable eligibility, documentary, end-use and other conditions have been satisfied. The Supreme Court Constitution Bench in Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v. Dilip Kumar & Company clarified that exemption provisions must be interpreted strictly at the eligibility stage, the claimant bears the burden of demonstrating entitlement, and ambiguity regarding applicability of an exemption is generally resolved in favour of the Revenue. The ruling reconsidered and overruled the contrary interpretative approach associated with Sun Export Corporation v. Collector of Customs. At the same time, strict interpretation does not mean that every procedural irregularity necessarily defeats an exemption; the nature of the condition, statutory context and applicable law remain relevant. A sound customs exemption framework therefore requires clear notifications, proper tariff classification, adequate documentation, compliance with substantive and post-clearance conditions and consistent administration so that public revenue is protected while genuine beneficiaries can obtain concessions contemplated by law. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Significance and Contemporary Relevance Statutory Framework Governing Customs Duty Exemptions Customs Act, 1962 Section 25: Power to Grant Exemption Customs Tariff Act, 1975 Exemption Notifications Conditions for Claiming Customs Duty Exemptions Eligibility of Goods Compliance with Conditions Documentary Evidence Fulfilment of Post-Clearance Obligations The Principle of Strict Interpretation Judicial Interpretation of Customs Duty Exemptions Commissioner of Customs v. Dilip Kumar & Company (2018) Hansraj Gordhandas v. H.H. Dave (1969) Sun Export Corporation v. Collector of Customs (1997) Critical Analysis: Balancing Strict Interpretation and Economic Objectives Legal Certainty and Compliance Risk of Excessive Formalism Economic Consequences Contemporary Practical Illustration Challenges in the Administration of Exemptions Conclusion Suggestions References and Bibliography Show all 26 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Customs duty is an important instrument of India’s indirect taxation system. It is imposed on goods imported into India and, in specified circumstances, on goods exported from India. Customs duties serve several purposes, including generating government revenue, regulating international trade, protecting domestic industries and supporting national economic policies. However, imposing customs duty on every imported product at the same rate may not always serve the wider interests of the economy. Certain goods may require special treatment to encourage industrial development, promote exports, facilitate technological advancement or fulfil public welfare objectives. Customs duty exemptions provide a legal mechanism through which the government may reduce or eliminate the customs duty payable on specified goods. Such exemptions can make essential imports more affordable, reduce production costs and support particular economic activities. Nevertheless, an exemption is not an automatic entitlement merely because an importer considers the imported goods beneficial or necessary. It must be claimed and established in accordance with the applicable statutory provisions and the conditions prescribed by the relevant exemption notification. The principal statutory provision governing customs duty exemptions in India is Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962. It empowers the Central Government to grant exemptions in the public interest, either generally through notifications or, in exceptional circumstances, through special orders. The provision also permits exemptions subject to conditions that may need to be fulfilled before or after customs clearance. The interpretation of these exemptions has significant legal consequences. An importer may satisfy the general description of exempted goods but fail to fulfil a particular condition. Similarly, a notification may contain language that gives rise to competing interpretations regarding eligibility. Such situations raise questions about the burden of proof, the importance of procedural compliance and the extent to which courts may interpret exemption provisions strictly or liberally. The Supreme Court’s Constitution Bench decision in Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v. Dilip Kumar & Company (2018) is particularly significant because it clarified the approach to ambiguity in tax exemption provisions. The judgment established that the person claiming an exemption must demonstrate eligibility and that ambiguity concerning the applicability of an exemption is generally resolved in favour of the Revenue. This blog examines the scope of customs duty exemptions, their statutory framework, the conditions governing their application and the judicial principle of strict interpretation. It also analyses the practical challenges faced by importers and considers how exemption policies can balance revenue protection with legitimate trade and economic objectives. Significance and Contemporary Relevance Customs duty exemptions remain relevant because international trade increasingly involves complex supply chains, specialised machinery, electronic components, raw materials and technology-intensive products. Businesses may depend on imported inputs to manufacture goods, while public institutions may require specialised equipment for research, healthcare or infrastructure. Exemptions can support these activities by reducing the initial cost of imports. However, exemptions also affect government revenue and may create differences in the tax treatment of competing businesses. Their design and administration therefore require a balance between economic objectives, fiscal accountability and legal certainty. The central issue examined in this blog is whether the strict interpretation of exemption notifications ensures compliance with the law while allowing genuine beneficiaries to obtain the concessions intended by the government. Statutory Framework Governing Customs Duty Exemptions Customs Act, 1962 The Customs Act, 1962 provides the principal legal framework for the levy, assessment, collection and administration of customs duties in India. Section 12 establishes the general charging framework for customs duties on goods imported into or exported from India, subject to the Act and other applicable laws. The actual liability depends on the nature of the goods, the applicable tariff provisions and any valid exemption or concession. Section 25 is the principal provision governing exemptions from customs duty. Section 25: Power to Grant Exemption Section 25(1) empowers the Central Government, when satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest, to exempt specified goods from the whole or any part of the customs duty leviable on them. Such exemption may be granted: Generally, through a notification published in the Official Gazette. Absolutely, where the specified duty is fully exempted. Subject to conditions, which may need to be fulfilled before or after clearance of the goods. This power enables the government to formulate targeted concessions for particular categories of goods, industries or economic activities. The precise entitlement depends on the language and legal requirements of the applicable notification. Section 25(2) separately permits the Central Government to grant an exemption through a special order in an individual case where exceptional circumstances exist and are stated in the order. Section 25(2A) provides a mechanism for inserting an explanation to clarify the scope or applicability of a notification or special order, subject to the statutory requirements, including the prescribed one-year period. These provisions demonstrate that customs exemptions are statutory concessions exercised through legally prescribed procedures rather than informal administrative benefits. Customs Tariff Act, 1975 The Customs Tariff Act, 1975 supplements the Customs Act by providing the tariff classification and rates applicable to goods. The First Schedule contains the import tariff, while the Second Schedule deals with export tariff rates. The applicable customs duty must be determined by identifying the correct tariff classification and examining the relevant charging and exemption provisions. The relationship between the Customs Act and the Customs Tariff Act is important because an exemption does not independently determine the classification of goods. An importer must first establish the correct classification and applicable duty before determining whether a concession is available. Exemption Notifications Exemption notifications specify the goods, persons, circumstances and conditions to which a concession applies. A notification may identify goods through tariff headings, technical descriptions, intended uses or other specified criteria. It may also prescribe documentary requirements, end-use restrictions, authorisation requirements or compliance obligations. Consequently, an importer must examine the notification as a whole. Reading only the description of the goods while ignoring the accompanying conditions may result in an incorrect exemption claim. Conditions for Claiming Customs Duty Exemptions The availability of an exemption depends not only on the description of the goods but also on compliance with the conditions prescribed by the relevant notification. Eligibility of Goods The first requirement is that the imported goods must fall within the description of the goods covered by the exemption. This may require determining their tariff classification, technical specifications, composition, function or intended use. An importer cannot establish eligibility merely by relying on a commercial description appearing on an invoice. For instance, if an exemption applies to a particular category of machinery, it must be established that the imported machinery falls within that category according to the applicable legal description. Compliance with Conditions Exemption notifications may prescribe conditions relating to: The identity or status of the importer. The purpose for which the goods are imported. Production of an authorisation or certificate. Compliance with specified procedural requirements. Use of the goods for a prescribed period or purpose. The nature of each condition matters. A requirement that defines eligibility may have different legal consequences from a procedural requirement that facilitates verification. The Supreme Court has recognised the distinction between mandatory conditions and requirements that may be directory in nature, depending on the statutory setting and the purpose of the exemption. Documentary Evidence Importers must maintain relevant records to establish their eligibility for an exemption. Depending on the notification, these may include bills of entry, invoices, certificates of origin, authorisations, declarations, technical specifications and end-use records. The documents required will vary according to the exemption claimed. The absence of a particular document does not automatically produce the same result in every case; its legal significance depends on whether the requirement is mandatory and whether the applicable law permits any alternative or subsequent compliance. Fulfilment of Post-Clearance Obligations Certain exemptions impose conditions that continue after goods have been cleared from customs. For example, a concession may be linked to the use of imported machinery for a specified purpose. If the importer subsequently diverts the goods to an unauthorised use, the exemption may be questioned and the consequences prescribed by law may follow. Section 25 expressly permits exemptions subject to conditions fulfilled before or after clearance. This makes compliance a continuing responsibility in cases involving post-import obligations. The Principle of Strict Interpretation Strict interpretation is an important principle in the judicial interpretation of fiscal legislation. It requires courts and taxpayers to give effect to the language of the statute or notification without extending its scope beyond what the law permits. In the context of exemptions, strict interpretation is particularly relevant because an exemption constitutes a concession from the ordinary tax liability. The person claiming the exemption must establish that the goods and circumstances satisfy the requirements of the relevant provision. Courts cannot ordinarily extend the concession to persons or goods that fall outside its prescribed scope merely because an extension appears economically desirable. However, strict interpretation should not be confused with deliberately narrow or unreasonable interpretation. The notification must still be read as a whole, and its language must be understood in its statutory context. The central question is whether the claim falls within the exemption as legally framed, not whether the court personally considers the exemption beneficial or undesirable. Judicial Interpretation of Customs Duty Exemptions Commissioner of Customs v. Dilip Kumar & Company (2018) Citation: Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v. Dilip Kumar & Company, (2018) 9 SCC 1; 2018 (361) E.L.T. 577 (S.C.). The Supreme Court Constitution Bench examined the interpretative rule applicable when ambiguity arises in a tax exemption provision or notification. The dispute concerned the interpretation of an exemption claimed in relation to imported goods. The matter reached a Constitution Bench because earlier decisions had adopted differing approaches to ambiguity in exemption provisions. The Court clarified that a person claiming an exemption must establish that the claim falls within the parameters of the relevant provision. It held that exemption notifications must be interpreted strictly at the stage of determining eligibility. The Court further held that where an exemption notification remains ambiguous regarding its applicability, the benefit of that ambiguity cannot be claimed by the assessee and must be resolved in favour of the Revenue. It also rejected the contrary approach adopted in Sun Export Corporation v. Collector of Customs. Legal significance: The judgment places the burden of establishing eligibility on the person claiming the exemption and provides a binding interpretative rule for resolving ambiguity in exemption provisions. It is particularly important for importers who rely on exemption notifications while calculating their customs liability. Hansraj Gordhandas v. H.H. Dave (1969) Citation: Hansraj Gordhandas v. H.H. Dave, Assistant Collector of Central Excise and Customs, (1969) 2 SCR 253. This Supreme Court decision is an important authority on the interpretation of exemption notifications. The judgment is associated with the principle that exemption notifications must be understood according to their language and that the conditions prescribed for obtaining a concession must be considered in determining eligibility. The decision is relevant because it demonstrates that an exemption is not to be expanded beyond the terms on which it has been granted. The later Constitution Bench in Dilip Kumar relied on the established principles concerning the claimant’s responsibility to demonstrate entitlement and the need to comply with the prescribed conditions. Sun Export Corporation v. Collector of Customs (1997) Citation: Sun Export Corporation, Bombay v. Collector of Customs, Bombay, (1997) 6 SCC 564. In Sun Export Corporation, the Supreme Court had adopted an approach under which ambiguity in an exemption notification could be interpreted in favour of the assessee. This approach was subsequently reconsidered by the Constitution Bench in Dilip Kumar. The 2018 Constitution Bench expressly held that the ratio in Sun Export Corporation was incorrect and overruled decisions adopting the same contrary principle. The case is therefore relevant mainly for understanding the development of judicial interpretation and the legal position after the Constitution Bench ruling. Critical Analysis: Balancing Strict Interpretation and Economic Objectives The principle of strict interpretation serves an important purpose in customs administration. It helps prevent exemptions from being extended beyond their legally prescribed limits and reinforces the responsibility of importers to establish eligibility. However, its application also raises practical and policy-related concerns. Legal Certainty and Compliance A strict approach can encourage importers to examine notifications carefully and maintain appropriate records. This supports consistency in customs assessment and reduces the risk of exemption claims based solely on commercial assumptions. Nevertheless, legal certainty requires more than strict enforcement. Notifications must also be drafted clearly, and customs authorities must apply them consistently. Where descriptions are technically complex or conditions are difficult to interpret, businesses may face uncertainty even when they make genuine efforts to comply. Risk of Excessive Formalism A further concern is the possibility of treating every procedural irregularity as a complete failure of eligibility. Not all conditions necessarily perform the same function. Some determine whether the goods qualify for an exemption, while others facilitate verification or administrative processing. The Supreme Court’s discussion in Dilip Kumar recognises that mandatory requirements must be fulfilled, while some latitude may be appropriate for directory requirements where non-compliance does not affect the substance of the exemption. Therefore, strict interpretation should not become a mechanical rule under which every minor procedural defect automatically defeats a claim. Economic Consequences Customs exemptions may be designed to encourage investment, support domestic manufacturing, facilitate access to specialised equipment or advance public-interest objectives. If the conditions governing such concessions are unclear, importers may face unexpected costs, disputes or delays. These difficulties can undermine the predictability that exemption policies are intended to provide. At the same time, overly broad interpretation may extend concessions beyond the beneficiaries identified by the government, potentially affecting revenue and creating unequal treatment among similarly situated businesses. The appropriate legal approach must therefore respect both the text of the exemption and its statutory purpose. Contemporary Practical Illustration Consider a hypothetical Indian manufacturing company importing specialised machinery under a customs exemption notification. The notification provides a concession for machinery used in a specified manufacturing activity and requires the importer to submit prescribed documentation and comply with end-use conditions. The company imports machinery that appears to fall within the notification’s description. However, a dispute arises because the company has not fulfilled one of the prescribed requirements. The legal analysis should proceed through the following questions: First, eligibility: Does the machinery fall within the description of the goods covered by the notification? Second, statutory conditions: What requirements must be fulfilled, and are they conditions of eligibility or procedural obligations? Third, evidence: Can the importer establish compliance through the documents and records recognised by the applicable law? Fourth, interpretation: Is the notification genuinely ambiguous, or does its language clearly prescribe the relevant requirement? Fifth, legal consequences: What consequences does the Customs Act and the relevant notification prescribe if the requirement is not fulfilled? The importer cannot claim the exemption merely because the machinery contributes to industrial development. Equally, the customs authority must identify the applicable legal requirement and assess the claim according to the notification rather than imposing an additional condition unsupported by law. This hypothetical demonstrates how strict interpretation operates in practice. It requires the importer to establish eligibility while requiring the administration to act within the statutory framework. Challenges in the Administration of Exemptions The administration of customs exemptions involves several recurring challenges. Complexity of notifications: Multiple conditions, amendments and technical descriptions can make it difficult to determine whether particular goods qualify. Documentation and verification: Importers may need to coordinate information from suppliers, manufacturers and government authorities to establish compliance. Post-clearance monitoring: Where exemptions depend on end-use conditions, compliance may need to be examined after the goods have entered India. Interpretative disputes: Differences in the understanding of technical descriptions or procedural requirements can result in litigation. Balancing revenue and facilitation: Customs authorities must administer concessions consistently while ensuring that genuine eligible importers are not subjected to unnecessary uncertainty. Addressing these challenges requires clear legal drafting, accurate classification, effective documentation and consistent administrative interpretation. Conclusion Customs duty exemptions are an important component of India’s indirect taxation framework. Through Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962, the Central Government can grant full or partial exemptions in the public interest, subject to the conditions prescribed by law. These exemptions can support economic activities, facilitate imports and promote specific public-policy objectives. However, their availability depends on the terms of the relevant notification and the claimant’s ability to establish eligibility. The Supreme Court’s decision in Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v. Dilip Kumar & Company has clarified the principle of strict interpretation. It establishes that the person claiming an exemption must demonstrate entitlement and that ambiguity concerning the applicability of an exemption is generally resolved in favour of the Revenue. At the same time, the interpretation of exemption notifications must remain connected to their statutory language and purpose. Mandatory conditions must be respected, while the legal significance of procedural requirements must be assessed according to their nature and the applicable law. A sound customs exemption framework therefore requires both compliance and clarity. Importers must exercise due diligence, while the government should ensure that notifications are precise, accessible and consistently administered. Ultimately, the objective should be to maintain a customs regime that protects public revenue, respects statutory limits and provides genuine beneficiaries with a predictable legal framework for claiming exemptions. Suggestions Improve drafting: Exemption notifications should use clear descriptions and precisely defined eligibility conditions. Clarify compliance requirements: Notifications should distinguish mandatory eligibility conditions from procedural and post-clearance obligations wherever appropriate. Strengthen guidance: Official explanatory materials should help importers understand the scope of applicable exemptions. Promote consistent administration: Customs authorities should apply the same statutory criteria to similarly situated cases. Encourage proper documentation: Importers should maintain records demonstrating classification, eligibility and compliance with applicable conditions. Reduce avoidable litigation: Recurring interpretative issues should be addressed through legally authorised clarifications and transparent administrative practices. These measures can improve legal certainty while preserving the integrity of the customs exemption system. References and Bibliography 1. Statutes The Customs Act, 1962, No. 52 of 1962, § 12, § 25 (India). The Customs Tariff Act, 1975, No. 51 of 1975 (India). 2. Judicial Decisions Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v. Dilip Kumar & Co., (2018) 9 SCC 1; 2018 (361) E.L.T. 577 (S.C.). Hansraj Gordhandas v. H.H. Dave, Assistant Collector of Central Excise and Customs, (1969) 2 SCR 253. Sun Export Corporation, Bombay v. Collector of Customs, Bombay, (1997) 6 SCC 564. 3. Official and Research Sources Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), Customs Act, 1962, official tax information portal. Supreme Court of India, Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v. Dilip Kumar & Company, judgment dated 30 July 2018. Supreme Court of India, judgment dated 26 July 2022, concerning interpretation of exemption provisions. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Custom Duty Notifications Author Info Name: Aakhya Singh Qualification: Student - Others Location: Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Aakhya Singh Non-Fungible Tokens and Tax Law: Asset, Art or a New Category? February 17, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty Tariff Value Under Customs Law: How Notified Values Affect Import Taxation October 4, 2026 Abatement of Customs Duty on Damaged Goods Under Section 22: Conditions, Valuation & Cases October 4, 2026 Section 28 Customs Demand Does Not Require Prior Challenge to Self-Assessment: CESTAT Ahmedabad October 3, 2026 Customs Cannot Reclassify 226 Auto Parts Without Article-Specific Findings: CESTAT Chennai October 3, 2026 Used Rails’ Condition Governs Customs Classification; Value Rejection Needs Sequential Rules: CESTAT Chennai October 3, 2026 Helicopter Parts Eligible for SFIS/SHIS Customs Exemption: CESTAT Mumbai October 3, 2026