Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: Airtel Business has launched Airtel IQ Gateway, described as India’s first telco-grade network intelligence platform for enterprise messaging, integrating SMS, WhatsApp, RCS and voice on a single secure control plane. Announced on 5 October 2026, the platform aims to reduce fragmented vendor management, delivery failures, spam and fraud risks while strengthening data protection and communication reliability. Key capabilities include IQ Verify for fraud protection, Silent Authentication for SIM-based login and intelligent routing across channels. Targeted particularly at banking, financial services, government, e-commerce and logistics sectors, the platform has already been trialled with select banks and financial institutions and is intended to help enterprises deliver safer, more efficient and trustworthy customer communications. Airtel Business has announced the launch of Airtel IQ Gateway, marking a significant milestone as India’s first telco-grade network intelligence platform for enterprise messaging. This innovative platform aims to streamline business communications by integrating multiple customer communication channels, such as SMS, WhatsApp, RCS, and voice, onto a single, secure control plane. The launch, announced on 5th October 2026, is set to transform how enterprises manage their communication needs, offering enhanced safety and reliability. The Airtel IQ Gateway addresses the challenges faced by enterprises in managing fragmented communication systems across various service providers. By providing a unified platform, it eliminates the need for businesses to juggle multiple vendors, thereby reducing delivery failures and spam risks. The platform is compliant with the Digital Personal Data Protection (DPDP) standards, ensuring robust data protection and privacy measures. It also incorporates Airtel’s advanced fraud protection solutions and network insights, making customer interactions safer and more trustworthy. This development is particularly crucial for sectors such as banking, financial services, government, e-commerce, and logistics, where secure communication is paramount. The platform offers features like IQ Verify for fraud protection, Silent Authentication for SIM-based login, and intelligent routing across communication channels. These capabilities help enterprises mitigate fraud losses, prevent artificially inflated traffic costs, and maintain customer trust. The Airtel IQ Gateway has already been successfully trialled with select banks and financial institutions, demonstrating its efficacy in real-world scenarios. Sharat Sinha, CEO of Airtel Business, emphasised the importance of secure digital interactions in today’s economy. He highlighted that the platform extends Airtel’s expertise in fraud prevention to enterprises, enabling them to build brand trust and ensure secure customer engagements. As India moves towards a more digital future, the Airtel IQ Gateway is poised to play a pivotal role in enhancing the safety and reliability of enterprise communications. Analysts suggest that this launch could further solidify Airtel’s position as a leader in the telecommunications sector, particularly in enterprise solutions, as businesses increasingly prioritise secure and efficient communication systems. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under NSE Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Bharat Forge secures long-term contract with Pratt & Whitney Canada for aerospace components October 5, 2026 Coforge launches intent engineering framework for outcome-aligned AI agents October 5, 2026 DLF achieves complete sell-out of The Aureva with sales nearing ₹1985 crore October 4, 2026 Aurobindo Pharma secures USFDA approval for Perampanel tablets in multiple strengths October 3, 2026 Jaguar Land Rover reports robust sales growth in Q2 FY27 October 3, 2026 Bombay High Court reinstates de-registration and promoter change for Mahalaxmi project October 1, 2026