Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The Ministry of Finance has reported that officers of the Anti-Evasion Branch of the Central Goods & Services Tax (CGST), Delhi South Commissionerate, have arrested a partner of a firm engaged in trading iron and steel goods in connection with fraudulent availment, utilisation and passing on of inadmissible Input Tax Credit (ITC) aggregating to over Rs. 15.78 crore through bogus invoices of approximately Rs. 87.67 crore. According to the release, the investigation found that the firm had availed inadmissible ITC on the basis of invoices issued by multiple firms, several of which were found to be non-existent, non-functional, suspended or cancelled. Field verification also established that certain suppliers had no genuine business activity at their declared places of business. Further inquiry established that ITC was availed without actual receipt of goods and was also passed on to various recipients through invoices issued without corresponding supply of goods. Based on the evidence gathered during the investigation and statements recorded under Section 70 of the CGST Act, 2017, the accused was arrested on 14.09.2026 under Section 69 of the CGST Act, 2017 and produced before the Patiala House Court, which remanded him to judicial custody for 14 days. The release states that further investigation in the case is under progress. Ministry of Finance CGST Delhi South Commissionerate busts firm for fraudulent availment of ITC of over Rs. 15.78 crore; arrests partner of firm Posted On: 15 SEP 2026 9:56PM by PIB Delhi As part of its ongoing enforcement drive against fraudulent Input Tax Credit (ITC) claims, the officers of Anti-Evasion Branch of the Central Goods & Services Tax (CGST), Delhi South Commissionerate, have arrested a partner of the firm engaged in trading of iron and steel goods in a case involving fraudulent availment, utilisation and passing on of inadmissible ITC aggregating to over Rs. 15.78 crore through bogus invoices of approximately Rs. 87.67 crore. Investigation revealed that the firm had availed inadmissible ITC on the basis of invoices issued by multiple firms, several of which were found to be non-existent, non-functional, suspended or cancelled. Field verification also established that certain suppliers had no genuine business activity at their declared places of business. Further inquiry established that ITC was availed without actual receipt of goods and was also passed on to various recipients through invoices issued without corresponding supply of goods. Based on the evidence gathered during investigation and statements recorded under Section 70 of the CGST Act, 2017, the accused was arrested on 14.09.2026 under Section 69 of the CGST Act, 2017 and produced before the Patiala House Court, which remanded him to judicial custody for 14 days. Further investigation in the case is under progress. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Fake ITCGoods And Services TaxGSTGST Notifications Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Delhi HC on Proper Officer for Section 122 Penalties & Pre-Deposit for Pre-Oct 1, 2025 SCNs September 16, 2026 Advance Ruling Not Admitted Where Questions Concerned Faculty Services: West Bengal AAR September 16, 2026 GST on Proprietorship Business Transfer to LLP: WBAAR Ruling September 16, 2026 Electric Vehicles Without Battery Remain Classifiable Under HSN 8703/8711 at 5% GST: WBAAR September 16, 2026 Self-Invoice Value Deemed Open Market Value for RCM: West Bengal AAR September 16, 2026 GST on IIT Water Pipeline Works: West Bengal AAR Fixes SAC and 18% Rate September 16, 2026