Summary: The Competition Commission of India in JSW Paints (P.) Ltd. v. Asian Paints Ltd.[1] examined allegations by JSW Paints Private Limited and Sri Balaji Traders that Asian Paints Limited had used its substantial position in the decorative paints market to restrict JSW Paints’ access to dealers. The allegations concerned anti-competitive vertical arrangements under Section 3(4) of the Competition Act, 2002 and abuse of dominant position under Section 4. JSW Paints alleged that Asian Paints pressured dealers through supply restrictions, withdrawal of incentives, credit changes and alterations in dealer status to discourage them from dealing with JSW Paints. At the prima facie stage, the CCI considered Asian Paints to appear dominant in the relevant market for manufacture and sale of decorative paints by the organised sector in India. It also considered the alleged restrictions capable of involving exclusive supply arrangements and refusal to deal and accordingly directed the Director General to investigate under Section 26(1) of the Act. After considering the DG’s investigation, representations and oral submissions, however, the CCI found the allegations were not established. The investigation indicated that JSW Paints had actually added more dealers than Asian Paints during the relevant period. Evidence was also insufficient to establish direct coercion of dealers, while certain dealer-status and credit decisions were explained on commercial grounds. The Commission consequently found no contravention of Sections 3(4) or 4. The matter reinforces the distinction between possessing a dominant position and abusing that position: substantial market share or brand strength does not by itself establish abuse. Evidence must demonstrate the alleged exclusionary conduct and its competitive consequences. Table of Contents▸ INTRODUCTION FACTS OF THE CASE ISSUES CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES JSW Paints & Sri Balaji Traders Asian Paints DECISION HELD BY CCI ANALYSIS OF THE JUDGEMENT High Market Share ≠ Abuse Burden of Proof on Informant Dealer Autonomy Matters Vertical Agreements Require Proof of Harm Show all 12 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); INTRODUCTION The informant i.e., JSW Paints Private Limited filed a complaint against Opposite Party Asian Paints Limited, a manufacturer of industrial and decorative paints, alleging that it had violated sections 3 and 4 by enforcing an exclusive supply agreement and prohibiting paint dealers from dealing with the informant’s paint. However, the accusations were not supported by hard evidence, and no case of violation of sections 3 and 4 was found. FACTS OF THE CASE In 2019, JSW Paints, a division of the JSW Group, made its entry in the decorative paint market. JSW Paints quickly started growing in cities in southern India by providing alluring dealer incentives and marketing techniques. However, the business claimed that Asian Paints began forcing dealers to break off their connections with JSW Paints shortly after its debut. Threats to cut off supply, lower the caliber of services, cancel incentives, and remove credit lines were all part of this. Sri Balaji Traders filed a second complaint, claiming that after starting to work with JSW Paints, the dealer was demoted in Asian Paints’ internal retailer hierarchy. The Competition Act of 2002’s Sections 4 (2) (c) (abuse of dominant position) and 3(4) (anti-competitive vertical agreements) were allegedly violated by both informants. The Director General (DG) was instructed to look into the claims after the CCI combined the two cases. ISSUES Whether Asian Paints holds a dominant position in the relevant market? Whether Asian Paints has abused its dominant position under Section 4 of the Competition Act, 2002? Whether Asian Paints has entered into anti-competitive vertical agreements in contravention of Section 3(4) of the Act? CONTENTIONS OF THE PARTIES JSW Paints & Sri Balaji Traders They argued that Asian Paints is in a dominant position, continuously holding a market share of over 38%, which is three times that of its closest competitor. In order to compel dealers and infrastructure partners to refrain from doing business with JSW, Asian Paints planned a denial of market access. Multi-brand dealer connections were purportedly hindered by Asian Paints’ implementation of loyalty incentive systems. Dealer status revocations, such as Balaji’s reduction from Critical Retailer, were punitive and intended to stifle competition. Asian Paints It refuted all allegations of anti-competitive behavior. Claimed that there are many competitors in the market and that entry barriers are low. Claimed that rather than being motivated by competitive retribution, its actions (such as supply decisions or credit adjustments) were motivated by commercial prudence. Claimed that during the contested time, JSW Paints added more dealers than Asian Paints, proving that market access was not restricted. Highlighted that the majority of dealers’ claims of coercion lacked reliable evidence. DECISION HELD BY CCI According to Section 3(4) of the Act, the CCI observed that Asian Paints’ actions constituted an instance of enforcing an exclusive supply agreement and refusal to trade. Therefore, by erecting obstacles to entry, forcing out current competitors, and preventing JSW Paints from entering the market, the aforementioned behavior had a significant negative impact on competition. In violation of Section 4(2)(c) of the Act, Asian Paints was accused of impeding JSW Paints’ entry by controlling the Indian organized sector’s market for the production and distribution of decorative paints. Therefore, Asian Paints’ actions were intended to stop JSW Paints from entering the aforementioned market. With regard to the “manufacture and sale of decorative paints by the organised sector in India,” the CCI observed that Asian Paints initially seemed to hold a dominant position in the relevant market. Furthermore, the CCI noted that Asian Paints’ restrictions seemed to be in the form of an exclusive supply agreement and refusal to deal with the purported violation of Section 3(4) of the Act. Therefore, in accordance with Section 26(1) of the Act, the CCI instructed the DG to order an investigation into the incident. The Competition Commission of India decided that Asian Paints had not violated Sections 4 or 3(4) of the Competition Act after examining the investigative report, the parties’ representations, and the oral arguments. The DG’s findings, which the CCI approved, suggested that JSW Paints was able to attract more dealers than Asian Paints throughout the relevant time frame, refuting allegations of market access denial. There was insufficient evidence to support Asian Paints’ actions of directly pressuring dealers. Commercial success served as justification for some business choices, such as adjustments to dealer statuses or loan restrictions. Even though Asian Paints had a sizable market share and a dominant brand, this did not, by itself, qualify as abuse under the Act. As a result, the Commission closed the investigation against Asian Paints without imposing any sanctions or giving any instructions. As a matter of fact based on the DG findings, the CCI determined that there must be evidence that, on the balance of probabilities, would suggest a powerful established player employing strategies to drive out a smaller competitor or even a newcomer to the market (regardless of its size or inherent advantages) by pressing downstream players to avoid doing business with the new competitors or to boycott them. ANALYSIS OF THE JUDGEMENT The CCI’s approach in this case demonstrates its cautious approach to controlling large businesses’ competitive activity. Because there was insufficient proof of abusive behaviour, the Commission decided not to declare Asian Paints a dominant corporation in violation of the Act, even though it acknowledged the company’s significant market dominance (about 40%) and extensive dealer network. There are certain several key points which emerges from this case- High Market Share ≠ Abuse The decision emphasizes that dominance in and of itself is not unlawful. Liability only arises when such dominance is abused. The result depended heavily on this distinction. Burden of Proof on Informant Informant’s burden of proof: Despite having ample resources, JSW Paints was unable to provide convincing evidence demonstrating that Asian Paints actions significantly prevented market access or that dealers were under duress. Dealer Autonomy Matters The Commission recognized that dealers have a huge influence on how the market behaves. It acknowledged that a large number of independent dealers carried a variety of brands. Vertical Agreements Require Proof of Harm Without evidence of substantial adverse effects on competition (AAEC), certain arrangements do not violate Section 3(4), even if they appear exclusive. The Commission’s preference for evidence-based enforcement over perception-driven action is demonstrated by this ruling, which may appear to be a lost chance to punish incumbents for anti-competitive activity. The burden of proof for abuse of power is still high, particularly in industries with complex and non-exclusive dealer relationships. [1] Case Nos. 36 of 2019 & 17 of 2021 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under competition act Author Info Name: ADHIRAJ CHOWDHURY Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Location: South Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 3 View full profile → More from ADHIRAJ CHOWDHURY NCLT cannot decide on public law matters under MMDR Act in IBC cases: SC March 17, 2025 Legal Implications of Corporate Dividend Policy in India March 17, 2025 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Pre-Crime Property Can Be Attached for Equivalent Value Under PMLA: SAFEMA Delhi September 30, 2026 Inter-Party Fraud Does Not Bar Arbitration; USD 60 Million Protection Restored: SC September 30, 2026 Supreme Court: 10% EMD Limit Does Not Bar Forfeiture of Further Auction Deposit September 30, 2026 Section 11 Court Must Limit Inquiry to Existence of Arbitration Agreement: SC September 29, 2026 Pending Section 8 Application Does Not Bar Appointment of Arbitrator: Calcutta HC September 29, 2026 Essential Tender Condition Cannot Be Relaxed After Bid Submission: Supreme Court September 29, 2026