Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12727 Case Name S. B. Enterprises Vs Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) (Jharkhand High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Jharkhand High Court Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); S. B. Enterprises Vs Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) (Jharkhand High Court) The Jharkhand High Court, in a writ petition filed by S. B. Enterprises against the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) and other respondents, issued notice and granted interim protection against further proceedings arising from the impugned orders. The petitioner challenged both the assessment order and the order passed by the appellate authority, contending that both orders had been passed against a dead person. At the outset, the Court recorded that notice had been issued to the respondents and that Mr. P.A.S. Pati accepted notice on their behalf. The principal challenge raised by the petitioner was twofold. First, it was contended that the assessment order as well as the appellate authority’s order were passed against a deceased person. Second, the petitioner contended that the primary authority as well as the appellate authority under the Central GST legislation lacked jurisdiction and that jurisdiction lay only with the State GST authorities. The Court considered the jurisdictional objection at the interim stage and observed that, prima facie, there was force in the allegation that the impugned assessment order and appellate order had been passed against a dead person. On that basis, the Court did not permit further proceedings pursuant to the impugned orders to continue during the pendency of the matter. Accordingly, the High Court directed that there shall be an interim stay of all further proceedings pursuant to the impugned orders. The order is therefore confined, at this stage, to interim protection and does not record a final determination of the jurisdictional issue or the substantive challenge to the impugned orders. The matter was directed to be listed on 13.06.2025. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF JHARKHAND HIGH COURT Issue notice to respondents. 2. Mr. P.A.S Pati accepts notice on behalf of the respondents. 3. It is contended that the impugned assessment order as well as the appellate authority’s order are both passed against a dead person and that the primary authority as well as the appellate authority under the Central GST legislation have no jurisdiction and only the State GST authorities have jurisdiction. Prima facie, we find force in the said allegation. 4. Therefore, there shall be interim stay of all further proceedings pursuant to the impugned orders. 5. List this case on 13.06.2025. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgments Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,706 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Bad-Debt Provision Allowed as Individual Debtor Accounts Were Written Off: ITAT Mumbai September 8, 2026 Refundable loans not service advances; Service Tax demand set aside: CESTAT Kolkata September 8, 2026 Return-Schedule Error Cannot Create Section 115BBI Liability: ITAT Mumbai September 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Rule 37A GST: Critical ITC Reversal Rule Businesses Must Know to Avoid Costly Interest September 8, 2026 Penalty Cannot Exceed SCN Amount under Section 75(7) UPGST Act: Allahabad HC September 8, 2026 Karnataka HC Directs Reimbursement of GST Differential to Contractor September 8, 2026 Bombay HC Sets Aside GST Appeal Rejection Over Alleged 10% Pre-Deposit Shortfall September 8, 2026 Madras HC Allows GST ITC Rectification Application for Wrong Tax Head Credit September 8, 2026 Madras HC Upholds GST ITC Blocking under Rule 86A September 8, 2026