Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), through Trade Notice No. 25/2026-27 dated September 07, 2026, has introduced an Open API facility for issuance of Certificates of Origin (CoOs) on the Trade Connect e-Platform. The facility is being made available to eligible exporters and systems in accordance with the prescribed process and technical requirements. It enables exporters to integrate their Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), accounting or other software systems with DGFT’s Certificate of Origin system for electronic submission and exchange of CoO-related information, reducing manual data entry and facilitating a more efficient application process. The framework supports both Preferential and Non-Preferential Certificates of Origin. Exporters are required to obtain API credentials through the API Management section of the CoO Portal, whitelist relevant public IP addresses and configure a document signer for digitally signing payloads. The framework provides an Authentication Token API, CoO File API and Certificate Verification API. Access tokens remain valid for 60 minutes. Password protection uses PBKDF2 with a dynamic salt, while requests and responses are digitally signed using SHA-256 RSA digital signatures and 2048-bit X.509 certificates. A transaction ledger records application status and details including acknowledgement ID, file number, file date and certificate number. The annexed Help Manual also specifies applicant, certificate, importer, producer, invoice, product, shipment, supporting-document and declaration information required for API transactions and lists the trade agreements and certification schemes supported by the framework. Ministry of Commerce & Industry DGFT Introduces Open API Facility for Certificate of Origin on the Trade Connect e-Platform Exporters Can Now Apply for Certificates of Origin Directly from Their Own ERP or Accounting Software Facility Covers Both Preferential and Non-Preferential Certificates of Origin Posted On: 07 SEP 2026 4:28PM by PIB Delhi The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, has introduced an Open Application Programming Interface (API) facility for the issuance and verification of Certificates of Origin (CoO) through the Trade Connect e-Platform. The facility is now available for use by eligible exporters and their systems. The Open API facility enables exporters to integrate their Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), accounting or other business software directly with the DGFT’s CoO system. At present, exporters are required to enter CoO-related details separately on the DGFT platform, even when the same information is already available in their business software. The new facility enables electronic transfer of application data from the exporter’s system to the DGFT platform, thereby eliminating repetitive data entry, reducing errors and expediting the application process. The facility supports both Preferential and Non-Preferential Certificates of Origin. Preferential CoOs are issued under Free Trade Agreements (FTAs), Regional Trade Agreements (RTAs) and Preferential Trade Agreements (PTAs), enabling exporters to claim applicable tariff concessions in the importing country. Non-Preferential CoOs are issued for customs clearance, compliance, trade remedy and other trade purposes without providing tariff benefits. Under the facility, exporters can obtain API credentials through the API Management section of the CoO Portal and register the IP addresses from which their systems will connect. Three APIs have been made available, namely the Authentication Token API for secure login, the CoO File API for submission of applications and receipt of certificates, and the Certificate Verification API for verification of issued certificates. A transaction ledger is maintained for each application, providing details of the status of the application, including Draft, In Process, Approved, Certificate Issued and Rejected. The ledger also captures the acknowledgement ID, file number, file date and certificate number, enabling exporters to track their applications electronically. The Open API facility incorporates multiple security safeguards to ensure secure and reliable exchange of information. All requests and responses are digitally signed using SHA-256 RSA digital signatures with 2048-bit X.509 certificates to ensure data integrity, authentication of the sender and non-repudiation. Passwords are protected using PBKDF2 hashing with a dynamic salt, while access is restricted to IP addresses whitelisted by the exporter. Each access token remains valid for 60 minutes. The framework covers major trade agreements and certification schemes, including India–Japan CEPA, India–Korea CEPA, SAFTA, SAPTA, ASEAN–India FTA, India–Singapore CECA, India–Malaysia CECA, India–Chile PTA, India–Mercosur PTA, India–UAE CEPA, India–Australia ECTA, India–Oman CEPA, India–EFTA TEPA, India–UK CETA, the Generalized System of Preferences and the Non-Preferential CoO Scheme. The system automatically applies the relevant fields, origin criteria and validation rules based on the agreement or certification scheme selected by the exporter. The registration, authentication and technical integration process is available on the Trade Connect e-Platform. A step-by-step help manual has also been annexed to the Trade Notice. Exporters, Export Promotion Councils, designated CoO issuing agencies and trade bodies may contact the DGFT Helpdesk through the toll-free numbers or e-mail for queries, suggestions and feedback relating to the eCoO module. Further details are available in Trade Notice No. 25/2026-27 dated 07 September 2026, issued by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade. **** Government of India Ministry of Commerce and Industry Department of Commerce Directorate General of Foreign Trade Trade Notice No. 25/2026-27-DGFT |Dated: September 07, 2026 To, All Exporters / Members of Trade & Industry All Designated CoO Issuing Agencies All Export Promotion Councils / Trade and Industry Associations All DGFT Regional Authorities Subject: Introduction of Open API Integration for Certificate of Origin (CoO) through Trade Connect e-Platform – regarding. The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) has been undertaking various initiatives for digitalisation and ease of doing business. In this regard, an Open API facility for issuance of Certificates of Origin (CoOs) has been introduced on the Trade Connect e-Platform and is now being released and made available for use by eligible exporters/systems as per the prescribed process and technical requirements. The objective of the Open API facility is to enable exporters to integrate their Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), accounting or other software systems with the DGFT’s Certificate of Origin system for electronic submission and exchange of CoO-related information, thereby reducing manual data entry and facilitating a more efficient application process. 3. Access and Onboarding: The complete process for registration, API access, authentication, technical integration and use of the Open API facility is available on the Trade Connect e-Platform at: “https://www.trade.gov.in/pages/certificate-of-origin → API Management for Exporters” 3.1. The Help Manual containing the step-by-step procedure for accessing and using the facility is provided at Annexure-I. 4. Support Channels: Exporters and stakeholders are encouraged to reach out to the DGFT Helpdesk with respect to any queries, suggestions, or feedback related to the eCoO module. Support is available through the following channels: Toll-Free Assistance: You may contact the DGFT Helpdesk through our toll-free numbers for support. Email Inquiries: For clarifications or further assistance, please e-mail DGFT. 6. All concerned stakeholders are encouraged to undertake the necessary technical integration and make use of the Open API facility in accordance with the process and technical specifications prescribed by DGFT. This is issued with the approval of the competent authority. (Prakash Kamble) Deputy DGFT (Issued from File No. 01/02/60/AM-25/EG&TF) Annexure – I Help Manual for accessing API facility on Trade Connect ePlatform 1. Introduction The Certificate of Origin (CoO) Open API framework enables secure integration between user systems and the CoO Trade Connect ePlatform for the submission, processing, issuance, and verification of Certificates of Origin. The objective is to establish a standardized digital ecosystem that reduces manual intervention, eliminates duplicate data entry, improves data accuracy, and facilitates seamless information exchange among exporters, certifying agencies, and regulatory authorities. The platform supports: 1.1. Preferential Certificate of Origin Issued under Free Trade Agreements (FTAs), Regional Trade Agreements (RTAs), and Preferential Trade Agreements (PTAs), enabling exporters to obtain tariff concessions in importing countries. 1.2. Non-Preferential Certificate of Origin Issued for compliance, customs clearance, trade remedy implementation, and other trade-related purposes without providing any preferential tariff benefits. 2. API Process Flow 2.1. Prerequisites Before proceeding with API integration, agencies are required to: Obtain onboarding credentials from the API Management section of the CoO Portal. Add the relevant public IP address(es) to the IP Whitelist in the API Management section of the CoO Portal. Ensure that the user system has a document signer configured for digitally signing the payload before transmission to the CoO system. 2.2. Workflow 1. Obtain API credentials, including User ID, Password, API Key, and Public Key, from the API Management section of the CoO Portal. 2. Encrypt the password using PBKDF2 with a dynamic salt. 3. Call the Authentication API to generate an access token. 4. The system validates the credentials and, upon successful validation, returns an access token. 5. The access token remains valid for 60 minutes. 6. Submit CoO applications using the CoO File API. 7. Issued certificates can be validated using the Certificate Verification API. 2.3. Process Workflow 1. The user will be provided with the X-API-Key, unique User ID, Password, and CoO Public Key through the API Management section of the CoO Portal. 2. The user shall provide the public IP address(es) from which the API calls will be made. Only API calls originating from the whitelisted public IP addresses will be permitted by the CoO system. 3. The user shall append a 32-byte dynamic salt to the password before hashing it using PBKDF2, with an iteration count of 65,536 and a key length of 256 bits. The string representation of the dynamic salt bytes appended to the encrypted hash bytes shall be passed as the password. 4. The user system shall generate an access token by passing the X-API-Key, User ID, and PBKDF2 dynamic-salted password generated in Step 3 to the generateAuthToken API. The CoO system shall validate the User ID, password, and IP address. Upon successful validation, the system shall return the access token. 5. The access token generated in Step 4 shall remain valid for 60 minutes. The user may cache and reuse the token during its validity period. 6. CoO File API: The user shall submit the data in the prescribed standard format and, in response, receive the certificate and associated data. 7. CoO Verify API: The API shall be used to verify the authenticity of a Certificate of Origin issued through the CoO system. 3. API Credentials & Ledger Management Guide 3.1. API Credentials Please refer to the API Credentials screen for details regarding API credentials, IP whitelisting, and public certificates. The user may regenerate the password and secret key using the respective buttons provided on the screen. The password, X-API Key, and secret key can be viewed after successful validation of the OTP received on the registered mobile number and email address. Call the Auth Token API to obtain an access token. The access token remains valid for 60 minutes and may be reused during its validity period. 3.2. Ledger Management 1. A ledger shall be maintained for each API transaction. The applicable ledger statuses are: Draft In Process Approved Certificate Issued Rejected 2. Upon successful processing, the CoO system shall return the following details: Acknowledgement ID File Number File Date Certificate Number Response Code Remarks These details shall be recorded in the exporter’s ledger. 3.3. API Help Please refer to the API Help tab under the API Management section for detailed API specification information. Note: All requests and responses shall be digitally signed using: SHA-256 RSA Digital Signature 2048-bit X.509 Certificates This ensures: Data integrity Sender authentication Non-repudiation 4. Certificate of Origin Auth Token API Please refer to the API Credentials screen for details regarding API credentials, IP whitelisting, and public certificates. Call the Authentication Token API to obtain an access token. The access token remains valid for 60 minutes and may be reused during its validity period. The request contains the following parameters in JSON format: User ID Password Header Content-Type: application/json X-API-Key 5. Certificate of Origin File API The CoO File API is the primary transaction API used for application submission. 5.1. Applicant Information The applicant section captures: IEC Number Firm Name Branch Details GSTIN Address Information State and District Declaration Status Postal Delivery Requirement 5.2. Certificate Information The certificate section includes: Certificate Type Trade Agreement Request Type Issuing User Regional Office Issuing Office Exhibition Declaration Cumulation Information Producer/Exporter Details 5.3. Importer Information Key details include: Importer Name Country Address Email Information 5.4. Producer Information Where applicable, the following details may be provided: Producer Name Address Country Producer Identifier Telephone Number Email Address 5.5. Invoice Information The invoice section includes: Invoice Number Invoice Date Currency Exchange Rates Third Country Invoicing Information 5.6. Export Product Information The export product section captures: ITC HS Codes Product Description Quantity Unit of Measurement Invoice Value FOB Value Packaging Details Preference Criteria 5.7. Shipment Information The shipment section includes: Mode of Transport Shipment Documents Port of Shipment Port of Discharge Route Information Vessel Details Departure Date Exporter Remarks 5.8. Supporting Documents The supporting document section stores: Attachment Type Upload URL Remarks Attestation Requirements 5.9. Declaration Information Mandatory declaration information includes: Place Date Applicant Name Designation Contact Information Compliance Declaration Acceptance Note: Trade Agreements Supported The framework supports the following trade agreements and certification schemes. Key Agreements: India-Japan CEPA (IJCEPA) India-Korea CEPA (IKCEPA) SAFTA SAPTA ASEAN-India FTA India-Singapore CECA India-Malaysia CECA India-Chile PTA India-Mercosur PTA India-UAE CEPA India-Australia ECTA India-Oman CEPA India-EFTA TEPA India-UK CETA Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) Non-Preferential CoO Scheme Dynamic Validation Each agreement contains specific: Mandatory fields Optional fields Business validations Product origin criteria Shipment requirements Producer and exporter declarations The API dynamically validates applications according to the selected agreement. 6. Certificate Verification API Verification can be performed using: File Number File Date Certificate Number Certificate Date The CoO system returns: Validity Status Certificate PDF URL Verification Remarks Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under DGFT Notifications Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in DGFT DGFT Extends SION E-52 Advance Authorisation to Raw Sugar TRQ Conversion Deadline September 4, 2026 DGFT Opens Daily Allocation of 2,02,550 MT Balance Raw Sugar TRQ September 2, 2026 DGFT Automates Free Sale and Commerce Certificate Issuance for Exporters September 2, 2026 DGFT Automates Free Sale and Commerce Certificate Issuance on DGFT Portal August 31, 2026 DGFT Introduces New Features in Bank Guarantee Repository Module August 28, 2026 DGFT Enhances PSIA and PSIC Process on DGFT Portal August 25, 2026