Summary: A Share Subscription Agreement governs an investor’s subscription to newly issued shares of a company in exchange for capital. It records the subscription price, valuation, conditions precedent, closing procedure, representations, warranties, indemnities and investor-protection rights. Unlike a Share Purchase Agreement, an SSA results in fresh capital being received by the company and ordinarily dilutes existing shareholders. In India, the issuance must comply with the Companies Act, 2013, particularly Sections 42 and 62(1)(c), applicable rules and statutory filing requirements. Where the investor is a non-resident, FEMA regulations governing foreign investment, sectoral limits, entry routes, pricing, reporting and related conditions must also be observed. An SSA is commonly executed alongside a Shareholders’ Agreement, which governs the continuing relationship among shareholders after completion of the investment. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Subscription and Pricing Conditions Precedent Closing and Allotment Warranties, Indemnities and Investor Protection Share Subscription Agreement vs. Shareholders’ Agreement Purpose of an SSA Purpose of an SHA Legal Framework in India Conclusion Show all 10 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Growing a business often requires more than just operational revenue; companies frequently need outside capital to scale infrastructure, develop novel products, or seize new market opportunities. One primary method for securing this capital is by issuing fresh shares to an investor. The commercial and legal terms of such a transaction are formally documented in a Share Subscription Agreement (SSA). An SSA is a legally binding contract between a target company and an incoming investor, whereby the investor agrees to subscribe to newly issued shares in exchange for an agreed financial consideration. Because these shares are newly issued, the transaction injects fresh liquidity directly into the company’s corporate treasury, expanding its overall share capital base. It is vital to distinguish an SSA from a Share Purchase Agreement (SPA). While an SPA governs the secondary transfer of existing shares between a current shareholder and a buyer—meaning the consideration goes to the selling shareholder rather than the company—an SSA governs the primary issuance of new shares directly by the company. Consequently, the SSA serves as the foundational legal architecture regulating how fresh equity capital enters the enterprise. Subscription and Pricing The foundational commercial objective of an SSA is to establish the precise parameters of the equity investment. The agreement details the exact number and class of shares to be allotted, the price per share and the total aggregate investment amount. The subscription price relies heavily on the valuation agreed upon by the parties, subject to applicable legal and regulatory standards. Transactions typically distinguish between pre-money valuation—the enterprise value before the capital injection—and post-money valuation—the resulting value after the new funds are added. Because the company issues new equity, existing shareholders ordinarily experience dilution, as their proportional ownership percentages decrease to accommodate the incoming investor. Furthermore, to balance risk, parties frequently structure investments as tranche-based funding, under which capital is disbursed in phases contingent upon the company achieving specified performance or operational milestones. Conditions Precedent Signing an SSA does not automatically mean that the transaction is complete. Parties routinely insert mandatory prerequisites known as Conditions Precedent (CPs), which must be fully satisfied or expressly waived before the transaction can proceed to closing. Typical conditions precedent include: Formal approval from the Board of Directors and, where mandated by the company’s constitutional documents or applicable law, approval through a special resolution of the shareholders. Satisfactory completion of legal, financial and commercial due diligence. Procurement of necessary statutory, regulatory or sectoral governmental approvals. Compliance with applicable corporate laws and foreign investment requirements. When dealing with cross-border investments into India, adherence to the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA), and the applicable foreign investment framework is mandatory, particularly regarding the entry route, sectoral caps, pricing guidelines and reporting requirements. Additionally, SSAs frequently contain a Material Adverse Effect (MAE) clause. This functions as a protective exit mechanism, permitting the investor to withdraw from the transaction where an unforeseen and materially adverse event severely affects the company’s financial position, business or operations between signing and closing, subject to the precise scope and negotiated exclusions contained in the agreement. Closing and Allotment Once all conditions precedent have been successfully fulfilled or waived, the transaction advances to closing. This phase represents the operational completion of the agreement, under which the subscription consideration is transferred and the shares are allotted to the investor. The closing sequence typically comprises: The transfer and receipt of the agreed subscription consideration into the designated bank account. The formal allotment and issuance of shares by the company. Updating the company’s register of members to reflect the incoming investor. Issuing physical share certificates or crediting shares in dematerialised form, as applicable. Filing the requisite statutory forms, such as Form PAS-3, with the Registrar of Companies (ROC). The SSA explicitly outlines the procedural sequence and timeline for these actions to eliminate legal ambiguity regarding each party’s obligations at closing. Warranties, Indemnities and Investor Protection As incoming investors experience structural information asymmetry, they rely heavily on formal assurances provided by the company and its founders. An SSA incorporates detailed representations and warranties covering corporate existence, authority, asset ownership, financial statements, tax compliance, pending litigation and intellectual property rights. To give these warranties practical effect, the agreement establishes indemnities—contractual obligations requiring the indemnifying party to compensate the investor for losses arising from specified breaches, misrepresentations or identified pre-existing liabilities, subject to the negotiated limitations, exclusions and claim procedure. Beyond risk mitigation, the SSA may secure continuing governance and protection rights for the investor, such as: The right to appoint a nominee director or board observer. Access to financial statements and specified corporate information. Veto or consent rights over identified critical corporate decisions. Anti-dilution protection to preserve the investor’s economic position in a subsequent down-round. Founders and key executives may simultaneously be bound by confidentiality obligations and, where legally permissible and enforceable, restrictive covenants such as non-compete and non-solicitation clauses. Share Subscription Agreement vs. Shareholders’ Agreement An SSA is rarely executed in isolation; it is commonly paired with a Shareholders’ Agreement (SHA). While both documents govern aspects of the investment, their legal scopes differ significantly. Purpose of an SSA The SSA is primarily a transactional contract focused on the investor’s entry into the company. It regulates matters such as share pricing, the number and class of shares, conditions precedent, closing mechanics, representations, warranties and indemnities. Purpose of an SHA Conversely, the SHA is a relational contract designed to govern the continuing relationship among shareholders after closing. It ordinarily establishes: Internal corporate governance and management protocols. Share-transfer restrictions, including rights of first refusal (ROFR). Liquidity provisions such as tag-along and drag-along rights. Reserved matters, deadlock-resolution procedures and exit mechanisms. The SSA acts as the legal vehicle that brings the investor into the company, while the SHA provides the contractual framework governing how the shareholders coexist thereafter. Where shareholder rights are intended to bind the company and operate through its internal governance framework, corresponding provisions may also need to be incorporated into the company’s articles of association. Legal Framework in India In India, an SSA involving the primary issuance of shares must comply with the Companies Act, 2013, particularly the provisions governing private placements and preferential allotments under Sections 42 and 62(1)(c), read with the applicable rules. Depending on the nature of the issuance, compliance may include valuation requirements, board and shareholder approvals, issue of a private placement offer-cum-application letter, receipt of funds through permitted banking channels, maintenance of prescribed records, allotment within the statutory period and filing of the return of allotment. Non-resident investments must additionally comply with FEMA, the applicable foreign investment rules and regulations, sectoral conditions, entry-route requirements, pricing guidelines and prescribed reporting obligations. Conclusion Ultimately, a Share Subscription Agreement is much more than a financial receipt. It serves as an essential risk-management instrument that aligns commercial expectations, establishes completion milestones and allocates contractual liability. When drafted meticulously alongside applicable statutory requirements, the company’s articles of association and a robust Shareholders’ Agreement, the SSA provides a secure and predictable legal foundation for capital infusion and corporate growth. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013 Author Info Name: Yaseera Nawaz Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Location: Kolkata, West Bengal Articles Published: 3 View full profile → More from Yaseera Nawaz Shareholders’ Agreement: Structure and Key Terms August 19, 2026 Share Purchase Agreement: Key Terms and Risks August 16, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Not Every Concern Begins with a Complaint- IC’s Role Beyond Written Complaint September 8, 2026 Corporate Guarantee Continues Despite Demerger & Additional Security: NCLT Mumbai September 8, 2026 Refusal To Marry Alone Not Abetment of Suicide: Uttarakhand HC September 8, 2026 Limitation for Excess Freight Refund Suit Runs From SC’s Final Order After SLP Admission September 8, 2026 Supreme Court Quashes Arbitrary Tender Annulment After LOA Issuance September 8, 2026 ICSI Policy on Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal of Sexual Harassment at Workplace September 8, 2026