Summary:E-invoicing under GST has gradually moved from being an anti-evasion measure to becoming an important part of India’s digital tax administration. It was introduced in phases from October 2020; the mandate was extended to taxpayers with aggregate annual turnover exceeding ₹5 crore from 1 August 2023. More recent measures, including the 30-day reporting restriction for taxpayers with AATO (Annual Aggregate Turnover) of ₹10 crore and above from 1 April 2025, show that the system is becoming increasingly time-sensitive and technology-driven. An invoice under GST is no longer merely a document exchanged between a supplier and a recipient. With e-invoicing, specified invoices must pass through a prescribed digital authentication mechanism and obtain an IRN before they receive recognition within the GST framework. This has undoubtedly strengthened standardisation, traceability and tax administration, but it has also raised a less examined question: when technology validates, rejects and controls the reporting of an invoice, is e-invoicing still only a digital form of invoicing, or is the invoice becoming a digitally controlled tax event? Table of Contents▸ What is E-Invoicing under GST? What makes an invoice an “e-invoice”? Evolution of E-Invoicing under GST From large enterprises to a wider GST ecosystem: Legal Framework of E-Invoicing under GST Who is Required to Generate an E-Invoice under GST? 1. Turnover Threshold 2. Aggregate Turnover Across GST Registrations 3. Transactions Covered by E-Invoicing 4. Exclusions from E-Invoicing Process of Generating an E-Invoice under GST A compliance point that has acquired greater importance Critical Analysis and Emerging Compliance Concerns Technology versus Legal Compliance Legal Consequence of Technological Non-Compliance Technical Lapses, Cancellation and ITC Consequences Proportionality and the Future of E-Invoicing References: – Show all 18 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); What is E-Invoicing under GST? E-invoicing is not the electronic creation of an invoice; it is the prescribed digital reporting and authentication of certain GST invoices through an Invoice Registration Portal (IRP). The taxpayer continues to prepare the invoice in its own accounting, billing or ERP system. The relevant invoice particulars are then reported to the IRP, which validates the information, performs a duplication check, generates a unique Invoice Reference Number (IRN) and returns the authenticated invoice information along with the prescribed QR code. What makes an invoice an “e-invoice”? It must enter the prescribed GST system: A PDF invoice, an invoice generated in Excel, or an invoice sent by email does not, merely because it is digital, become an e-invoice under GST. The distinguishing element is its reporting and authentication through the notified IRP mechanism. The IRN is the key identifier: Once the invoice data is successfully reported, the IRP generates the unique IRN and digitally signs the relevant information. The QR code generated by the IRP contains the IRN and other specified invoice particulars and permits verification of the registered invoice. The legal consequence is stronger than ordinary electronic record-keeping: Rule 48(4) of the CGST Rules requires notified taxpayers to follow the prescribed e-invoicing procedure, while Rule 48(5)states that an invoice issued by a person covered by Rule 48(4), otherwise than in the prescribed manner, shall not be treated as an invoice. Thus, e-invoicing is not merely a convenience added to the tax invoice; for covered taxpayers, it forms part of the statutory framework governing the invoice. Evolution of E-Invoicing under GST The e-invoicing system was not introduced as a fully developed mechanism overnight. It emerged through a series of policy decisions, rule changes and technological preparations, with the GST Council gradually moving from the idea of electronic invoice reporting to a mandatory, system-based authentication framework. The 35th Meeting on 21 June 2019, the GST Council decided to introduce an electronic invoicing system in a phased manner, initially proposing voluntary implementation for B2B transactions. The stated objectives included greater business-process automation, reduction of compliance burden and tax evasion, and improved integration of invoice information with GST administration. The 37th GST Council Meeting shaped the model that was eventually adopted. On 20 September 2019, the Council considered the progress of the e-invoicing proposal and the recommendations of the technical sub-group. The emerging model moved away from making taxpayers generate their invoices directly on the Government portal. Instead, businesses would continue using their own accounting systems and report standardised invoice data to the designated registration system. This became an important feature of the eventual architecture. Notification No. 68/2019-Central Tax dated 13 December 2019inserted Rule 48(4) into the CGST Rules, creating the legal mechanism under which notified taxpayers would prepare invoices in the prescribed manner and obtain an Invoice Reference Number by uploading the relevant information to the Common GST Electronic Portal. The 39th GST Council Meeting held on 14 March 2020considered the technical and practical readiness of the system, recommended exemptions for specified classes of taxpayers and proposed deferring implementation. The mandatory system was consequently shifted to 1 October 2020, allowing further time for technological and regulatory preparation. E-invoicing became operational from 1 October 2020, the first mandatory phase applied to taxpayers having aggregate turnover exceeding ₹500 crore, with the regime initially centred on B2B transactions and subsequently encompassing specified export invoices and other documents. The Government thereafter expanded the system through successive phases rather than extending it to all taxpayers at once. From large enterprises to a wider GST ecosystem: The expansion of e-invoicing may be seen as a gradual movement from selective digital reporting to broad-based digital tax compliance: Stage Aggregate Turnover Threshold Effective From Phase I Above ₹500 crore 1 October 2020 Phase II Above ₹100 crore 1 January 2021 Phase III Above ₹50 crore 1 April 2021 Phase IV Above ₹20 crore 1 April 2022 Phase V Above ₹10 crore 1 October 2022 Phase VI Above ₹5 crore 1 August 2023 The final major expansion came through Notification No. 10/2023-Central Tax dated 10 May 2023, which reduced the threshold from ₹10 crore to ₹5 crore, with effect from 1 August 2023, subject to the notified exclusions and conditions. Legal Framework of E-Invoicing under GST √ Section 31 of the CGST Act, 2017: – the basic obligation of a registered person to issue a tax invoice for a taxable supply in the prescribed manner and within the prescribed time. E-invoicing therefore operates as an additional statutory requirement governing the manner of issuance for the class of taxpayers notified under the Rules. √ Rule 46 of the CGST Rules, 2017: – prescribes the essential particulars of a tax invoice, including the supplier and recipient details, a consecutive invoice number, date, HSN/SAC, value of supply and tax particulars. These particulars provide the substantive information that is subsequently captured in the prescribed electronic invoice format. √ Rule 48(4); Notification No. 13/2020-Central Tax, as amended requires such class of registered persons as may be notified by the Government, on the recommendations of the GST Council, to prepare invoices containing the prescribed particulars in FORM GST INV-01 and obtain an Invoice Reference Number (IRN) by uploading the relevant information to the Common Goods and Services Tax Electronic Portal. Who is Required to Generate an E-Invoice under GST? E-invoicing is mandatory only for the notified class of registered persons. The present framework principally uses the taxpayer’s aggregate turnover in any preceding financial year from 2017–18 onwards, together with the nature of the transaction and the specified exclusions. The threshold was reduced to ₹5 crore with effect from 1 August 2023 by Notification No. 10/2023-Central Tax. 1. Turnover Threshold 1. A registered person becomes subject to the e-invoicing mandate where its aggregate turnover exceeds ₹5 crore in any preceding financial year from FY 2017–18 onwards, subject to the applicable exclusions. The important point is that the test is not confined to the current financial year. Once the prescribed threshold has been crossed in a preceding financial year, the taxpayer falls within the notified class. Illustration: A registered business had aggregate turnover of ₹6 crore in FY 2024–25 but its turnover falls to ₹4.5 crore in FY 2025–26. The taxpayer cannot simply assume that e-invoicing ceases because its latest turnover is below ₹5 crore; the applicability test looks to whether the threshold was crossed in a preceding financial year. 2. Aggregate Turnover Across GST Registrations 2. The threshold has to be examined with reference to aggregate turnover under the GST framework, rather than treating each GST registration in isolation. The expansion to the ₹5 crore threshold itself was considered on a PAN-level basis by the GST administration. This becomes particularly relevant where one business operates through several GST registrations. Illustration: A company has GST registrations in Punjab, Haryana and Maharashtra. Even if none of the individual registrations independently appears to cross ₹5 crore, the applicability of the mandate cannot be determined simply by looking at one GSTIN in isolation. 3. Transactions Covered by E-Invoicing 3. For the notified taxpayers, the present framework principally covers B2B transactions and export invoices, with the prescribed treatment also extending to relevant credit notes and debit notes. The original rollout itself was designed around B2B and export transactions, and the ₹5 crore expansion continued that framework. Thus, crossing ₹5 crore does not mean that every document generated by the taxpayer automatically requires an IRN. Applicability must be examined transaction by transaction, after considering whether the taxpayer falls within the notified class and whether the particular transaction is covered. 4. Exclusions from E-Invoicing 4. The e-invoice framework also contains specific exclusions, they are specified Special Economic Zone (SEZ) units,banking companies and financial institutions, insurance companies, Goods Transport Agencies, passenger transportation service providers and suppliers of admission services relating to exhibition of cinematograph films in multiplex screens are excluded under the applicable notification framework. Process of Generating an E-Invoice under GST E-invoicing follows a simple principle: the taxpayer creates the invoice; the Invoice Registration Portal (IRP) authenticates and registers it, the process may be understood as follows: a. The supplier continues to generate the GST tax invoice through its own accounting, billing or ERP system. The invoice must contain the particulars prescribed under GST and the information required under the notified e-invoice schema in FORM GST INV-01. The IRP does not create the underlying commercial invoice. b. The supplier transmits the prescribed invoice details to an authorised Invoice Registration Portal. Depending upon its technology setup, the taxpayer may use available methods such as API integration, an online portal or offline/bulk reporting utilities. c. The submitted data passes through prescribed schema and validation checks, including a de-duplication check. An error in a mandatory field or inconsistency in the prescribed data structure can prevent successful registration until the information is corrected. This is an important feature of e-invoicing because the system does not merely receive the invoice data; it checks whether the submission satisfies the prescribed electronic requirements. d. Once the invoice successfully passes the required checks, the IRP generates a unique Invoice Reference Number (IRN). The IRN becomes the principal identifier of the registered e-invoice. The IRP also digitally signs the registered invoice data and generates the prescribed QR code. e. The supplier incorporates the IRN and QR code in the invoice and provides the authenticated invoice to the recipient. The QR code provides a means of verifying specified invoice particulars and the registration of the document with the IRP. g. The process does not end with IRN generation; the registered invoice data is transmitted from the IRP to the GST system and is auto-populated into the relevant tables of GSTR-1 and the GST portal presently identifies, among others, B2B invoices, export invoices and specified credit/debit notes among the documents receiving such auto-population. Where applicable, the registered invoice information can also be used in the e-way bill process. This reduces the need to repeatedly enter substantially the same transaction particulars and links the documentation of the invoice with the movement of goods. The Government’s e-invoice architecture was designed to facilitate this integration. Illustration: A Ltd., a registered manufacturer, makes a B2B supply to B Ltd. and is covered by the e-invoicing mandate. A Ltd. first prepares the ₹8 lakh tax invoice in its ERP. It then reports the prescribed invoice data to the IRP. After validation and a duplicate check, the IRP generates the IRN and QR code and digitally authenticates the invoice. A Ltd. then issues the authenticated invoice to B Ltd., while the relevant information is transmitted to the GST system for subsequent GSTR-1 reporting and, where applicable, the e-way bill process. Thus, one commercial transaction creates one connected digital trail across the GST ecosystem. A compliance point that has acquired greater importance The timing of reporting is now itself an important part of the process. For taxpayers having AATO of ₹10 crore or more, invoices, credit notes and debit notes covered by the requirement must be reported within the prescribed 30-day period from the document date; the IRP restricts generation of an IRN after the permitted period. This means that, for the affected taxpayers, timely reporting is no longer merely a matter of internal accounting discipline it directly affects the ability to obtain the required IRN. Critical Analysis and Emerging Compliance Concerns The e-invoicing framework has undoubtedly strengthened invoice traceability and reduced repetitive reporting, but its increasing reliance on automated validation also creates a new compliance challenge. For notified taxpayers, a technical or procedural failure can affect the legal recognition of the invoice itself, making the distinction between substantive tax evasion and genuine technical non-compliance increasingly important. Technology versus Legal Compliance Technology versus legal compliance: Automated validation improves efficiency, but a genuine invoice may still fail because of incorrect data, system errors or delayed reporting. A rigid technological outcome should therefore not automatically be equated with fraudulent conduct. The 30-day reporting restriction: For taxpayers with AATO of ₹10 crore or more, the system restricts IRN generation beyond the prescribed 30-day period. This strengthens discipline but also leaves limited room where delay results from genuine operational difficulties. Compliance burden on businesses: E-invoicing requires reliable ERP systems, accurate master data and timely reporting. The shift therefore places not only a legal but also a technological responsibility on taxpayers. Need for procedural safeguards: As GST administration becomes increasingly automated, taxpayers need transparent correction mechanisms and appropriate human review where a system-generated rejection has significant tax consequences. The objective should not be to dilute e-invoicing, but to ensure that technological efficiency does not come at the cost of proportionality and legal certainty. The future of digital tax administration lies in making the system effective against evasion while remaining capable of distinguishing a genuine mistake from deliberate non-compliance. Legal Consequence of Technological Non-Compliance The real challenge emerging from e-invoicing is not technological adoption but the legal consequence of technological non-compliance. Recent disputes before High Courts show situations where the underlying transaction and tax documents existed, but the absence or delayed generation of an e-invoice nevertheless resulted in detention or penalty proceedings. In M/s Agarwal Steels v. Additional Commissioner Grade-2 Writ Tax No. 884 of 2024 (Allahabad High Court, Feb. 17, 2025), Neutral Citation No. 2025: AHC:22221, the Allahabad High Court dealt with a case where the taxpayer attributed non-generation of the e-invoice to a GST portal glitch; the Court noted that the authorities had not found any intention to evade tax and set aside the detention and penalty orders. Technical Lapses, Cancellation and ITC Consequences √ Where the goods are accompanied by the tax invoice and e-way bill and there is no apparent discrepancy in the transaction, the absence of an e-invoice can nevertheless trigger proceedings. The emerging judicial response in cases shows the importance of distinguishing a technical lapse from an attempt to evade tax. √ An e-invoice cannot ordinarily be amended on the IRP; cancellation of the IRN is permitted only within 24 hours of generation, subject to the applicable conditions. A mistake discovered later may therefore require correction through the GST return mechanism or a credit note rather than simple amendment of the original e-invoice. √ Since Rule 48(5) provides that an invoice issued otherwise than in the prescribed e-invoicing manner is not treated as an invoice, a supplier’s failure can potentially create complications for the recipient seeking input tax credit, particularly because Section 16 requires possession of a tax invoice as one of the statutory conditions for ITC. The issue therefore extends beyond the supplier–the consequences can travel down the supply chain. √ From 1 April 2025, taxpayers with AATO of ₹10 crore or more cannot report covered invoices, credit notes or debit notes beyond 30 days from the document date, because the IRP restricts IRN generation after the permitted period. A deadline that was once primarily an internal accounting matter has therefore acquired a direct legal and operational consequence. Proportionality and the Future of E-Invoicing The emerging issue is therefore one of proportionality: a system designed to make tax administration more accurate should be equally capable of distinguishing between a fabricated transaction and an otherwise genuine transaction affected by a procedural failure. Therefore; E-invoicing has changed the GST invoice from a conventional tax document into a digitally authenticated transaction record. Its continued evolution should therefore focus on achieving a balance between real-time tax administration, technological efficiency and fair taxpayer compliance. References: – The Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, r. 48, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India. CBIC — CGST Rules, Rule 48 Goods and Services Tax Council, Agenda Item 13: Status and Progress in Generation of E-Invoicing, 37th GST Council Meeting, 20 September 2019. GST Council — E-Invoicing Agenda Ministry of Finance, Government of India, Notification No. 68/2019–Central Tax, 13 December 2019. CBIC — Notification/Rule Framework Ministry of Finance, Government of India, Notification No. 10/2023–Central Tax, 10 May 2023. Official E-Invoice Mandate — ₹5 Crore Threshold Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN), Revised Time Limit for E-Invoice Reporting for Businesses with AATO of ₹10 Crores & Above, 2025. Official E-Invoice Portal — 30-Day Reporting Rule Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Invoice Author Info Name: Aastha Kedia Qualification: Student - Others Location: Jalandhar, Punjab Articles Published: 3 View full profile → More from Aastha Kedia GST Composition Levy: Eligibility, Rates, ITC Limits and Trade-Offs September 23, 2026 India’s DTAA Framework: Evolution and MLI Alignment February 17, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Entry 11 of GST Notification 12/2017: The Builder Floor GST Trap October 1, 2026 Section 122(1A) GST Penalty Prospective From 01.01.2021: Delhi HC October 1, 2026 GSTAT Digital Appellate System: SOPs for Reply Filing and Transfer of Appeals October 1, 2026 101st Constitutional Amendment & GST: Reshaping India’s Indirect Tax Architecture October 1, 2026 Admitted Receipt of GST Show Cause Notice Defeats No-Notice Plea: Gauhati HC October 1, 2026 Madras High Court: KVB Sponsorship Demand Fails as Extended Limitation Was Unproved October 1, 2026