RBI/2026-27/280A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 24 | Dated: October 01, 2026 ToAll Authorised Dealers Madam / Sir, Non-Resident Deposits – Comprehensive Single Return (NRD-CSR)(R012):Submission under CIMS Sankalan Portal Attention of banks maintaining Non-Resident Deposits (NRD) Accounts is invited to A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated August 07, 2013 on monthly NRD-CSR return submission through XBRL platform to the Reserve Bank. 2. The NRD-CSR reporting has since moved to Centralised Information Management System (CIMS) Sankalan portal with the submission of March 2024 data in the month of April 2024. The return code of NRD-CSR on the CIMS is R012. The existing formats of NRD-CSR have also been recently rationalised for reporting bank-wise consolidated data under CIMS. The access to submit a return and reporting channel will be managed by RBI. The creation of users to submit the return and access to various options available on the Sankalan portal will be managed by the admin-users of the banks. Accordingly, this circular is being issued in supersession of the A.P. (DIR Series) Circular No. 19 dated August 07, 2013. 3. The NRD-CSR (R012) return can be submitted to RBI on CIMS through one of the three channels mentioned below: i. System-to-system integration: The returns will be collected directly from the reporting entities’ ADF server to RBI CIMS server. ii. File upload on Data Portal: Reporting entities can login to CIMS Data collection portal, upload and submit the return specific file. iii. Screen based web form on Data Collection Portal: Reporting entities can login to CIMS data collection portal and key in return specific information in the web form created for the return. 4. The revised NRD-CSR format, maturity codes, record types and the validations checks are provided in the Annex. For monthly NRD-CSR submission on CIMS portal by nodal office of banks, the Reserve Bank has provided the following alternatives: i. Banks can download the RBI’s NRD-CSR return template and format for screen based submission by logging to the RBI’s CIMS Sankalan portal (https://sankalan.rbi.org.in) [Path: CIMS Sankalan Homepage → (enter Username / Password / Captcha and OTP received on registered mobile of entity user) → Downloads → Download Return Template/Taxonomy and Return Format → NRD-CSR → Version Number 11.0.3 → Download Format] and use the same to prepare the data in the .xlsx file as per prescribed format to submit the data in the screen-based file submission module. NRD-CSR return Screen based submission is currently limited to a maximum of 2000 records. ii. Banks can Download RBI prescribed NRD-CSR Return Template/Taxonomy of .xml file preparation for File Upload / System to System based reporting channels from the Downloads → Download Return Template/Taxonomy and Return Format → NRD-CSR → Version Number 11.0.3 → Download Return Template/Taxonomy. Banks are required to prepare NRD-CSR .xml file for data submission as prescribed by RBI and upload the same on RBI’s CIMS portal. 5. The NRD-CSR report may be submitted on or before 10th of the month following the month to which the NRD data pertains. Banks may contact CIMS helpdesk (‘Support’ menu in the homepage) for any further assistance. 6. The directions contained in this circular have been issued under Sections 10(4) and 11(2) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999) and is without prejudice to permissions / approvals, if any, required under any other law. Yours faithfully, (Dr. Aditya Gaiha)Chief General Manager-In-Charge Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under FEMAFema NotificationsRBI Notificationsreserve bank of india Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Fema / RBI FEMA Compliance for Foreign Investment in Indian Businesses: Complete Guide October 7, 2026 Export Declaration Form (EDF) for Services: New FEMA Declaration from 1 October 2026 October 4, 2026 RBI’s Expected Credit Loss Framework: A New Era of Forward-Looking Provisioning from April 2027 October 4, 2026 FEMA Export-Import Regulations 2026: Key Changes Effective 1 October 2026 October 4, 2026 RBI Export Declaration Form (EDF) Rules for Export of Services from 1 October 2026 October 4, 2026 RBI EDF Compliance for Influencers Receiving Overseas Income from 1 October 2026 October 4, 2026