Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14500 Case Name Vishal Dhirubhai Gabani Vs Additional Commissioner of Customs Surat (Gujarat High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Gujarat High Court Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Vishal Dhirubhai Gabani Vs Additional Commissioner of Customs Surat (Gujarat High Court) Summary: Gujarat High Court dismissed the writ petition filed by Vishal Dhirubhai Gabani challenging an Order-in-Original dated 06.11.2025 imposing penalty of Rs.4,46,47,485/- under Sections 112(a) and 112(b) of the Customs Act, 1962. The proceedings arose from investigation into smuggling of gold in paste form through Surat International Airport. The petitioner contended that the show-cause notice did not properly specify the applicable clause of Section 112 and that gold was “dutiable goods” attracting Section 112(ii), rather than “prohibited goods” attracting Section 112(i). The High Court found that the show-cause notice specifically described the petitioner’s alleged role as an active syndicate member who arranged around 2,75,000 Dirhams in the UAE for purchase of gold and referred expressly to Sections 112(a) and 112(b). The Court held that the notice sufficiently informed the petitioner of the exact contravention alleged against him. On the scope of Section 112, the Court held that the petitioner’s alleged role attracted both clauses (a) and (b). Section 112(a) covers persons whose acts or omissions render goods liable to confiscation as well as persons abetting such acts, whereas Section 112(b) covers possession, carrying, concealing, selling, purchasing or otherwise dealing with goods with the requisite knowledge. Since the petitioner was found involved both in getting gold smuggled into India in paste form and in dealing with it, the Court held that both provisions could apply. Rejecting the contention that the gold should be treated merely as dutiable goods, the High Court followed Abdul Hussain Saifuddin Hamid vs. State of Gujarat, 2021 (1) G.L.H. 184. It reiterated that smuggling which renders goods liable to confiscation under Sections 111 or 113 brings such goods within the definition of “prohibited goods” under Section 2(33). In the present case, gold paste was sought to be smuggled concealed in jeans, shoes and underwear, and the petitioner was found to have played a vital role in facilitating its passage through Surat International Airport, aided other persons and dealt with the smuggled gold. Consequently, imposition of penalty under Section 112(i) could not be regarded as unwarranted. The Court also distinguished the Supreme Court decision in Amrit Foods vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, U.P., observing that unlike the notice involved in that case, the present show-cause notice had informed the petitioner of the precise nature of the alleged contravention. Gopal Saha was also held inapplicable on the facts. Referring to Shaikh Mohammad Sadiq, the Court further noted that mere non-quoting or wrong quoting of a statutory provision does not invalidate an order where the authority otherwise possesses jurisdiction. Here, Sections 112(a) and 112(b) had in fact been expressly mentioned both in the show-cause notice and the Order-in-Original. The writ petition was therefore dismissed. Cases Discussed Abdul Hussain Saifuddin Hamid vs. State of Gujarat, 2021 (1) G.L.H. 184 (Gujarat High Court) — The Court followed this decision for the proposition that goods smuggled in contravention of statutory prohibitions or restrictions and consequently liable to confiscation can fall within “prohibited goods” under Section 2(33) of the Customs Act. Om Prakash Bhatia v. Commissioner of Customs, Delhi, 2003 (155) ELT 423 (SC) — The judgment records the principle that contravention of statutory conditions governing import/export can bring goods within the category of prohibited goods. Amrit Foods vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, U.P., [2006] taxmann.com 857 (SC) — Distinguished. The petitioner relied upon it regarding failure to specify the precise penal clause. The High Court held that the present show-cause notice sufficiently disclosed the exact nature of the contravention and therefore did not suffer from the defect considered in Amrit Foods. Gopal Saha vs. Union of India, [2016] 69 taxmann.com 325 (Calcutta High Court) — Distinguished. The Court held that it did not apply because the petitioner’s acts in the present case fell within both Sections 112(a) and 112(b), and he had been called upon to show cause accordingly. AVI Steel Traders vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, 2010 (260) E.L.T. 43 (Delhi High Court) — Relied upon by Revenue. Cited for the submission that once a notice communicates the exact nature of the contravention, failure to specify the precise penal clause does not by itself invalidate the proceedings. Shaikh Mohammad Sadiq vs. Commissioner of Customs, 2024 SCC OnLine TS 4565 (Telangana High Court) — Relied upon. The Court applied the principle that non-quoting or wrong quoting of a statutory provision does not make an order illegal when the authority otherwise possesses competence and jurisdiction. FULL TEXT OF THE GUJARAT HIGH COURT JUDGMENT 1. In the present writ petition, the petitioner has assailed the Order-in-Original dated 06.11.2025 imposing penalty of Rs.4,46,47,485/- by invoking the provisions of Section 112(a) and Section 112(b) of the Customs Act, 1962 (for short “the Act”). 2. At the outset, on the objections raised by learned Senior Standing Counsel Mr.Shashvata Shukla on the maintainability of the petition, as the petitioner is having an alternative remedy, we have called upon learned advocate Mr.Hardik Vora for the petitioner to satisfy this Court in this regard. In response to this, he has submitted that since the petitioner is challenging the impugned order as the same is passed de hors the statutory provisions, the writ petition would be maintainable. 3. The brief facts leading to filing of the present writ petition are as under: 3.1 The petitioner, who is dealing in the business of embroidery machines was subjected to investigation along with other persons for smuggling of gold in the form of paste. 3.2 On the intervening night of 28/29.04.2023, the Special Operation Group (SOG), Surat Police intercepted a car bearing registration No. GJ-03-BA-5838 near S.K.Nagar Chokdi, Surat. There were two passengers who had arrived from Surat International Airport in Air India Express Flight No. IX-172 dated 28.04.2023 and upon interception and personal search conducted by the SOG Police, gold in paste form weighing 7158 grams in total, comprising 3582 grams was recovered from one Shri Fenil Rajeshbhai Mavani and 3576 grams was recovered from Shri Nirav Ramnikbhai Davariya who had arrived from Sharjah. 3.3 There were other two persons who were the occupants of the vehicle from whom nothing was recovered. Upon completion of the panchnama, the said four individuals were arrested. After the production of such individuals before the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Surat, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (for short “the DRI”), Regional Unit, Surat, took them into custody. The statement of Shri Fenil Rajeshbhai Mavani was recorded under Section 108 of the Act, wherein, he had narrated the modus of smuggling of goods which were handed over to them in Dubai by one Shri Umesh Rameshbhai Bhikadiya. Similar statement was given by Shri Nirav Ramnikbhai Davariya who was named by Shri Fenil Mavani. 3.4 Further statements were recorded of the persons who were involved. As investigation gradually proceeded, the name of the petitioner was unearthed during the investigation, and thereafter, he was arrested and his custody was taken by the Officers of the D.R.I, Regional Unit, Surat. 3.5 Ultimately, the petitioner was issued a show-cause notice along with the other persons who were involved in smuggling of the goods under Section 124 of the Act, dated 22.05.2024. The show-cause notice mentions roles of each of the individuals, including the petitioner. The petitioner submitted detailed reply along with the supporting documents on 03.07.2025. Thereafter, the respondent has passed the impugned Order-in-Original dated 06.11.2025 imposing a penalty of Rs.4,46,47,485/- under the provisions of Section 112 of the Act. 4. Learned advocate Mr.Hardik Vora, has confined his argument to the applicability of statutory provisions of the Customs Act, more particularly, Section 112 of the Act. 4.1 It is submitted that the provisions of Section 112 of the Act, refers to Clauses (a) and (b) relating to the improper importation of goods and further below Clause(b) there are five sub-clauses and since the petitioner has been imposed the penalty under Clause(i), the competent authority was required to issue the show-cause notice inviting the attention of the petitioner to the imposition of penalty under Sub-clause(b) of Section 112 of the Act and since the same is not done, it runs contrary to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Amrit Foods vs. Commissioner of Central Excise, U.P., [2006] taxmann.com 857 (SC). 4.2 Further, it is submitted that the show-cause notice does not refer to either Clause 112(a) or (b), but it refers to both the clauses which is impermissible. In support of his submissions, reliance is placed upon on the Single Judge judgement of High Court of Calcutta in the case of Gopal Saha vs. Union of India., [2016] 69 taxmann.com 325 (Calcutta). 4.3 Mr.Hardik Vora, learned advocate has submitted that, in fact, as per sub-clause-(ii), the goods referred in the said clause are a dutiable goods and hence the penalty ought to have been imposed under sub-clause(ii) since the gold falls in such category. Thus, it is urged that the impugned Order-in-Original is required to be quashed and set aside. 5. In response to the aforesaid submissions, learned Senior Standing Counsel Mr.Shukla has submitted that, in fact, the act i.e. smuggling of gold in paste form by the petitioner falls under both the provisions of Clauses (a) and (b) of Section 112 of the Act. It is submitted that while issuing show-cause notice, the competent authority had specifically highlighted the act of the petitioner and the nature of its contravention and hence, the petitioner was called upon to submit his explanation for the violation of the provisions of the Act. 5.1 It is submitted that in the reply by the petitioner to the show-cause notice, no contention was raised by him alleging any violation of the provisions of the Act. While referring to the Division Bench judgement of Delhi High Court in the case of AVI Steel Traders vs. Commissioner of Central Excise., 2010 (260) E.L.T. 43 (Delhi.), it is submitted that the Delhi High Court after considering the judgement of the Supreme Court in the case of Amrit Foods (supra), has held that in once the person is put to notice to the exact nature of contravention, it is not necessary to issue show-cause notice pointing out the precise clause under which the penalty is required to be imposed. 5.2 Learned Senior Standing Counsel Mr.Shukla, also placed reliance on the Division Bench judgement of Telangana High Court in the case of Shaikh Mohammad Sadiq vs. Commissioner of Customs., 2024 SCC Online TS 4565, and submitted that not pointing of relevant provisions in the show-cause notice would not make the order illegal and since the petitioner has an alternative remedy of filing an appeal, the writ petition may not be entertained. 6. We have heard learned advocates appearing for the respective parties at length. The entire case of the petitioner hinges on the provisions of Section 112 of the Act, more particularly clauses (a) and (b) and sub-clause (I) of Section 112 of the Act. The same is incorporated as under: “112. Penalty for improper importation of goods, etc. – Any person, (a) who, in relation to any goods, does or omits to do any act which act or omission would render such goods liable to confiscation under section 111, or abets the doing or omission of such an act, or (b) who acquires possession of or is in any way concerned in carrying, removing, depositing, harbouring, keeping, concealing, selling or purchasing, or in any other manner dealing with any goods which he knows or has reason to believe are liable to confiscation under section 111, shall be liable, x x x x x x x (i) in the case of goods in respect of which any prohibition is in force under this Act or any other law for the time being in force, to a penalty [not exceeding the value of the goods or five thousand rupees] [Substituted by Act 14 of 2001, Section 107, for certain words (w.e.f. 11.5.2001). ], whichever is the greater;” (ii) in the case of dutiable goods, other than prohibited goods, subject to the provisions of section 114A, to a penalty not exceeding ten per cent, of the duty sought to be evaded or five thousand rupees, whichever is higher: PROVIDED that where such duty as determined under sub-section (8) of section 28 and the interest payable thereon under section 28AA is paid within thirty days from the date of communication of the order of the proper officer determining such duty, the amount of penalty liable to be paid by such person under this section shall be twenty-five per cent, of the penalty so determined.” 6.1 Keeping in mind the aforementioned provision, we may, at this stage, refer to the contents of the show-cause notice which has been issued to the petitioner along with various other persons who are found to have indulged in smuggling of gold in paste form. This appears to be a wide spread racket of smuggling the gold in India. The relevant role of the petitioner in the impugned show-cause notice issued under Section 124 of the Act dated 22.05.2024 is as under: “49.6 Shri Vishal Dhirubhai Gabani: It appears that Shri Vishal Dhirubhai Gabani was an active syndicate member of group involved in smuggling of gold paste through Surat International airport and arranged around 2,75,000 Dirhams in UAE in April-23 to buy the gold for Shri Baldev Manshukbhai Sakhereliya. He was well aware that smuggling of gold from foreign countries without declaring before Customs Airport authorities and dealing with such goods is an offence under Customs Act, 1962 It appears that he was having culpable mental state and the acts of omission and commission on his part in relation to the smuggling of gold which is liable for confiscation Section 111(d), 111(i) and 111(j) have rendered himself liable for penalty under Section 112 (a) & (b) of the Customs Act, 1962.” 6.2 From the contents of the show-cause notice, it is evident that the petitioner has been informed of the exact contravention and his role in smuggling of gold from foreign countries without declaring before the Customs Authorities. The competent authority has specifically, after referring to his role, has mentioned about the provisions of Section 112 (a) and (b) of the Act. The petitioner accordingly filed reply to the show-cause notice. 6.3 After considering the reply of the petitioner, the Additional Commissioner of Customs passed the Order-in-Original dated 06.11.2025. The relevant observations and findings by the Tribunal are as under: “54.28.6 Shri Vishal Dhirubhai Gabani had played a vital role in the smuggling gold in gold paste through Surat International Airport as he is engaged in buying Gold from UAE and smuggle the same into India without declaring the same before the Customs Authorities and selling smuggled Gold in India on a commission of 3-4% of the amount invested/provided by him for purchase of gold in Dubai. He accepted the offer of Shri Baldev Mansukhbhai Skhereliya and arranged around 2,75,000 Dirhams in UAE in April-23 to buy the gold for Shri Baldev Mansukhbhai Sakhereliya. He was well aware about the fact that bringing gold from foreign countries without declaring before Customs Airport authorities and dealing with such goods is an offence under Customs Act, 1962. Thus, it is evident that Shri Vishal Dhirubhai Gabani has indulged himself in aiding, abetting and consciously concerned himself with smuggling of Gold in Paste form through Surat International Airport, thereby rendering himself liable for penalty under Section 112 (a) & (b) of the Customs Act, 1962. As he aided and abetted in smuggling of the said gold by funding the syndicate for commission to buy gold in UAE, I hold the levy of penalty of Rs.4,46,47,485/- (Rupees Four Crore Forty Six Lakh Forty Seven Thousand Four Hundred and Eighty Five only) (market value) is apt as per Section 112 of the Customs Act, 1962. As per the wordings of the provision of Section 112 of the Customs Act, 1962, I hold that the penalty at higher side which is equal to the value of the subject goods is to be invoked in subject matter.” 6.4 We may, at the outset, first deal with the contentions raised by the petitioner relating to Clauses (a) and (b) prescribed under Section 112 of the Act. On a bare perusal of the alleged contravention, we find that the role of the petitioner in smuggling the gold would be covered in both the Clauses of Section 112 of the Act i.e. (a) and (b). The word “or” implies that a person can be liable under either clause depending on his/her role. So far as Section 112(a) of the Act is concerned there are two classes of persons liable for penalty there under, one a person who does or omits to do any act which renders the goods liable for confiscation and the other is a person who abets the doing of any act or omission to do any act which renders the goods liable for confiscation under Section 111 of the Act. It thus attempts to bring in persons who are not directly concerned but even indirectly concerned with the illicit importation within the scope of penal provision of Section 112 (a) of the Act, whereas Section 112(b) of the Act provides for imposition of penalty when any person acquires possession of the offending goods or is concerned with carrying, depositing, concealing, selling or dealing with goods which he knows or has reason to believe are liable to confiscation under Section 111 of the Act. This section brings in the element of knowledge in the act of illicit acts relating to importation of goods. Thus, if a person imports goods illegally(active role), he/she falls under 112(a) of the Act. If a person subsequently buys or handles/deals(passive role) with those illegally imported goods, they fall under 112(b) of the Act. The petitioner has been found to be indulged with other persons for getting the gold smuggled in the country in the paste form and also in dealing with the same. This is done without declaring to the Customs Authority. Thus, the role of the petitioner, which is unearthed in the investigation, indubitably will attract both the clauses (a) and (b) of Section 112 of the Act. 6.5. It is contended before us that the case of the petitioner will fall under sub-clause(ii) instead of sub-clause(i) since the goods(gold) falls under the category of “dutiable goods” and not in “prohibited goods”, and accordingly, the penalty was required to be imposed. The petitioner is involved in smuggling of gold in paste form. The Division Bench of this Court in the case of Abdul Hussain Saifuddin Hamid vs. State of Gujarat, 2021 (1) G.L.H. 184, after comprehensive examination of the provisions of the Customs Act apro pos smuggling of gold has held thus: “51 No sooner goods are brought from outside, into the territorial waters of the country, they become imported goods. At this juncture, it has to be seen, as to whether, such goods are legally or illegally imported, whether they fall within Section 11 of the Customs Act, 1962 , which defines, an illegal import as, import of any goods in contravention of the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 or any other law for the time being in force. Goods imported, contrary to the enumerated subject matters in chapters IV and IV-A of the Customs Act, 1962 , which deal with prohibition on importation and exportation goods and detection of illegally imported goods prevention and disposal thereof, more fully described in Sections 11 and 11A of the Act, are also to be treated as prohibited. Goods imported from outside of the territory waters of the country, against any prohibition or restriction under the Customs Act, 1962 or any other law, time being in force, are to be treated as prohibited goods. 52 There is one thing to state that gold is not one of the enumerated prohibited goods and another, to state that goods are not permitted to be brought into the country, by smuggling, which, means any act or omission which would render such goods liable to confiscation under section 111 or section 113. There may not be total prohibition for import of goods, but if import is not done lawfully, in other words against any prohibition or restriction, which are inbuilt in the Customs Act, 1962 or any other law for the time being in force, then such goods should fall within the definition of Section 2(33) of the Act. 53 A conjoint reading Sections 2(33), 11 or 11A of the Act and other provisions in the Customs Act, 1962 , and any other law, for the time being in force, would also make it clear that importation of goods, defined as illegal or prohibited or without complying with the conditions, or in violation of statutory provisions in the Customs Act, 1962 or any other law for the time being in force and in all cases, whether there is either total prohibition or restriction, in the light of the judgment of the Supreme Court in Om Prakash Bhatia’s case, such goods should fall within the definition of Prohibited goods. When import is in contravention of statutory provisions, in terms of Sections 11 or 11A of the Customs Act, 1962 or any other law, for the time being in force and when such goods squarely fall within the definition ‘illegal import’, or the other provisions in the statute, dealing with prohibition/restriction, the same are to held as, “prohibited goods” and liable for confiscation. 54 Under Section 123 of the Customs Act, 1962 , if the importer fails to discharge the burden that the goods seized from him, were not smuggled, then there is a strong reason for the proper officer to seize such goods. Smuggling is nothing but importing goods clandestinely, without payment of duty and such goods would squarely fall within the definition of ‘Prohibited goods’, under Section 2(33) of the Act. 55 The expression, ‘subject to the prohibition under the Customs Act, 1962 or any other law for the time being in force, in Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, has to be read and understood, in the light of what is stated in the entirety of the Act and other laws. Production of legal and valid documents for import, along with payment of duty, determined on the goods imported, are certainly conditions to be satisfied by an importer. If the conditions for import are not complied with, then such goods, cannot be permitted to be imported and thus, to be treated as prohibited from being imported. 56 In Om Prakash Bhatia v. Commissioner of Customs, Delhi reported in 2003 (155) ELT 423 (SC), the Supreme Court held that if there is intentional over-invoicing of the goods imported, then such goods imported, fall under the category, ‘prohibited goods’, as per Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, 1962. Smuggling under the Customs Act, 1962 , in relation to any goods, means any act or omission which will render such goods liable to confiscation, under section 111 or section 113 of the Act and therefore, those goods, would also fall under the definition of prohibited goods, in terms of Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, 1962. 57 If there is a fraudulent evasion of the restrictions imposed, under the Customs Act, 1962 or any other law for the time being in force, then import of gold, in contravention of the above, is prohibited. For prohibitions and restrictions, Customs Act, 1962 , provides for machinery, by means of search, seizure, confiscation and penalties. Act also provides for detection, prevention and punishment for evasion of duty. 58 The expression, ‘subject to prohibition in the Act and any other the law for the time being in force.’ in Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, has wide cannotation and meaning, and it should be interpreted, in the context of the scheme of the Act, and not to be confined to a narrow meaning that gold is not an enumerated prohibited good to be imported into the country. If such narrow construction and meaning have to be given, then the object of the Customs Act, 1962 , would be defeated. 59 The Provisions in the Customs Act, 1962 , dealing with prohibition/restriction or any other law for the time in force, have to be read into Section 2(33) of the Act. Section 11A of the Act, as to what is ‘illegal import’, cannot be thrown to winds, while interpreting, ‘what is prohibited goods’, in terms of Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, 1962 . To add, while interpreting Section 2(33) of the Customs Act, 1962 , as to what is prohibition, imposed in other laws, for the time being in force, one cannot ignore, the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974, rules framed by way of delegated legislation, like the Baggage Rules, 1998, framed in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 79 of the Customs Act, 1962 or for the matter, Section 77 of the Customs Act, 1962 , which mandates, the owner of the baggage for the purpose of clearing the goods, to make a declaration of the contents of the baggage to the proper office and also the customs Notification No.3/2012, dated 16.01.2012, that only passengers of Indian origin or a passenger in possession of a valid passport, issued under the Passport Act, 1967, who have stayed abroad for six months and above alone are eligible to import gold of foreign origin and clear the same on payment of customs duty, at the rate prescribed. 60 Thus, in the overall view of the matter, we are convinced that no case is made out by the writ-applicant for grant of any relief as prayed for in this writ-application.” 6.6 It is held that smuggling under the provisions of the Act, in relation to any goods, means any act or omission which will render such goods liable to confiscation, under section 111 or section 113 of the Act and therefore, those goods, would also fall under the definition of prohibited goods, in terms of Section 2(33) of the Act. In the present case, the gold is sought to be smuggled in the paste form concealed in jeans, shoes and underwear worn by the other persons and the petitioner has played a very vital role to get it through the Surat International Airport and has also aided other persons and also dealt with it, hence the imposition of penalty as prescribed under sub-clause(i) to Section 112 of the Act cannot be said to be unwarranted. 6.7 Finally, we may refer to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of Amrit Foods (supra), on which reliance is placed by the petitioner, more particularly paragraph No.5, which is as under: “5 The Revenue has preferred an appeal from the order of the Tribunal setting aside the imposition of penalty under Rule 173Q of the Central Excise Rules, 1944. The Tribunal has set aside the order of the Commissioner on the ground that neither the show cause notice nor the order of the Commissioner specified which particular clause of Rule 173Q had been allegedly contravened by the appellant. We are of the view that the finding of the Tribunal is correct. Rule 173Q contains six clauses the contents of which are not same. It was, therefore, necessary for the assessee to be put on notice as to the exact nature of contravention for which the assessee was liable under the provisions of the 173Q. This not having been done the Tribunal’s finding cannot be faulted. The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed with no order as to costs.” 6.8 The Supreme Court in reference to Rule 173Q of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, appears to upheld the decision of the Tribunal by recording that since Rule 173Q contains six clauses the contents of which are not same, the assessee was required to put to notice on the exact nature of contravention for which the assessee was liable. In the instant case, while issuing show-cause notice, the respondent authorities have exactly pointed out the nature of contravention by the petitioner in smuggling the goods and hence the petitioner was made aware of the same which he responded by filing a reply and hence we do not find that the show-cause notice becomes vulnerable on the aforesaid observations made by the Supreme Court in the instant case. 6.9 In the decision of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Gopal Saha (supra) we find that the same would not apply to the facts of the present case as the act of the petitioner would fall in both the clauses (a) and (b) of Section 112 of the Act, which the petitioner was called upon to show cause. The Telangana High Court in the case of Shaikh Mohammad Sadiq (supra), has held as under: “10. In the instant cases, despite repeated query, learned counsel for the petitioners could not point out any lack of jurisdiction of the competent authority except saying that the relevant provisions under which relevant sub-clauses under which penalties have been imposed are not mentioned. It is not the case of the petitioners as argued that the penalties were imposed without authority and competence. The only breach highlighted is non-quoting of relevant provisions. This is trite that non-quoting or wrong quoting of provisions will not make the order illegal. If the authority is otherwise having competence, said infirmity will not cause any dent to the impugned orders. At the cost of repetition, it is mentioned no jurisdictional error which goes to the root of the matter is pointed out. For the breach of principles of natural Justice, the petitioners can avail the statutory alternative remedy. The requirement of statutory pre-deposit cannot be a ground to short-circuit the statutory remedy.” 6.10 The Telangana High Court while dealing with the provisions of Section 112(a) and (b) of the Act, on an analogus issue has held that non quoting or wrong quoting of provisions will not make the order illegal, more particularly if the authority otherwise having competence, said infirmity, will not cause any dent to the impugned orders. 6.11 In the instant case as mentioned hereinabove, the competent authority has in fact, quoted the provisions of Section 112(a) and (b) of the Act in the show-cause notice as well as in the Order-in-Original and accordingly, after apprising the facts and the role of the petitioner has precisely imposed penalty by invoking sub-clause(i) to section 112 of the Act. We may reiterate that the learned advocate appearing for the petitioner was asked to avail the remedy of filing an appeal, however, he has insisted for reasoned order, hence we have done so. 7. Accordingly, the writ petition fails and is hereby dismissed. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under high court judgments Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,846 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Gold Falls Within Prohibited Goods Category: Delhi HC Dismisses Customs Appeal October 2, 2026 Section 112 Penalty Unsustainable Without Corroborative Evidence: CESTAT Kolkata October 2, 2026 Partners Can Face Cheque Dishonour Complaint Without Firm Initially Arraigned: SC October 2, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty Acceptance of Enhanced Customs Value Does Not Bar Importer From Challenging Reassessment: CESTAT Delhi October 2, 2026 Coerced Consent Cannot Justify Enhancement of Customs Transaction Value: CESTAT Chandigarh October 2, 2026 Consent to Enhanced Customs Value Cannot Waive Statutory Valuation Safeguards: CESTAT Allahabad October 2, 2026 Import Permit Mandatory for Insecticides Imported for Non-Insecticidal Use: CBIC October 2, 2026 Notification No. 80/2026-Customs (N.T.) – Revised Customs Tariff Values from 1 October 2026 October 1, 2026 No MRP-Based CVD on Disinfectants Supplied to Government Hospitals: CESTAT Kolkata October 1, 2026