Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14009 Case Name Zydus Healthcare Limited Vs Commissioner (Sikkim High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Sikkim High Court Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Zydus Healthcare Limited Vs Commissioner (Sikkim High Court) Summary: Zydus Healthcare Limited, earlier M/s German Remedies, approached the Sikkim High Court seeking refund of ₹4 crore deposited on 17.12.2016 as ad-hoc “security paid under protest” with the Commercial Tax authorities. The writ petition also sought interest at 6% or another appropriate rate from the date of deposit and quashing of pending assessment and reassessment proceedings as time-barred under sections 38 and 42A of the Sikkim VAT Act read with section 6A of the CST Act. During the proceedings, counsel for the petitioner informed the Court that the ₹4 crore amount had already been refunded. In view of the refund, the petitioner requested closure of the writ petition because negotiations between the parties were continuing concerning the remaining prayers relating to interest and withdrawal of the pending assessment and reassessment proceedings. The petitioner sought liberty to approach the High Court again if aggrieved by the State’s action concerning those remaining issues. The Government Advocate appearing for the respondents agreed to this proposal. Accordingly, the Sikkim High Court closed and disposed of the writ petition with liberty as prayed for. The Court therefore did not adjudicate the merits of the petitioner’s claims regarding interest or whether the pending assessment and reassessment proceedings were time-barred. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF SIKKIM HIGH COURT 1. Mr. Jatin Arora, learned counsel for the petitioner submits that this matter pertains to the present writ petition with a prayer for refund of an amount of Rs.4.00 Crores deposited as ad-hoc “security paid under protest” on 17.12.2016 to the respondent no.1. The writ petition also seeks payment of interest at the rate of 6% or any other appropriate rate from 17.12.2016. The petitioner further seeks quashing of the pending assessment and reassment proceedings as time barred under section 38 and section 42A of the Sikkim VAT Act read with section 6A of the CST Act. 2. The learned counsel for the petitioner states that the amount of Rs.4.00 Crores has since been refunded to the petitioner. He therefore, submits that the matter may be closed since there is an ongoing negotiaton between the parties with regard to the other two prayers. He seeks liberty to approach this Court if they feel aggrieved by the action of the State on the question of interest and withdrawal of the pending assessment and reassessment proceedings. 3. The learned Government Advocate appearing for the respondents submits that they are aggreable to the proposal. 4. Accordingly, the writ petition stands closed and disposed of with liberty as prayed for. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under CSTGoods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgmentsVAT Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,486 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Supplier’s Supplementary Invoices Valid for CENVAT Credit Without Suppression: CESTAT Delhi September 28, 2026 Customs Must Identify Statutory Basis Before Treating Adult Sex Toys as Prohibited Goods: Calcutta HC September 28, 2026 ITC Reversal on Non-Taxable GIDC Leasehold Transfer Unsustainable: Gujarat HC September 28, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Mere GSTR-3B and GSTR-2A ITC Mismatch Cannot Attract Section 74 Penalty: GSTAT September 28, 2026 Supplier GST Default Cannot Automatically Deny Bona Fide Buyer’s ITC September 27, 2026 Foreign Software Subscriptions Attract GST Reverse Charge With ITC September 27, 2026 DRC-07 Cannot Replace Mandatory Section 74 SCN: GST Demand Explained September 27, 2026 GST on UPI Payments? Understanding MDR, 18% GST and Who Bears Cost September 27, 2026 Rule 86B Decoded: 6 Exceptions When 99% ITC Restriction Does Not Apply September 27, 2026