Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12622 Case Name Vijay Ghanshyam Gadiya Vs Union of India & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Vijay Ghanshyam Gadiya Vs Union of India & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) Summary: The Supreme Court considered a challenge to a customs penalty of Rs. 425,27,99,100/- imposed on Vijay Ghanshyam Gadiya by the Additional Commissioner of Customs, Surat under Section 114 of the Customs Act, 1962. The penalty arose from an allegation that a consignment of natural diamonds had been mis-declared as lab-grown diamonds to pay a lower tariff. The Order-in-Original dated 08.10.2025 was challenged before the Gujarat High Court, but the challenge failed when the High Court dismissed the appeal on 20.01.2026. The matter then reached the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court did not enter into the merits of the underlying customs dispute. Instead, the appellant contended that several judgments and articles relied upon by the second respondent in the Order-in-Original had been generated using Artificial Intelligence. The Court independently verified the material relied upon in the customs order and found that the second respondent had relied upon case laws that were either non-existent or had fake citations. The Court further found that some case laws which did exist did not lay down the legal propositions attributed to them. The Court observed that the material appeared to be a hallucination of AI. Paid content Become a Basic or Premium Member, or log in if you are already a Basic or Premium member. Become a Member Already a member? Log in Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Artificial Intelligencesupreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,664 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi No Proven Dominance or Market Foreclosure: CCI Closes Case Against Vygon India September 8, 2026 CAAR Mumbai Disallows Roasted Areca Nut Advance Ruling Under Section 28-I(2)(b) September 8, 2026 Next IAS UPSC Success Claims Misleading for Hiding Course Details: CCPA September 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty CAAR Mumbai Disallows Roasted Areca Nut Advance Ruling Under Section 28-I(2)(b) September 8, 2026 Customs Duty Demand for Alleged Fake DEEC Exports Set Aside by CESTAT Chennai September 6, 2026 CESTAT Mumbai Deletes Section 112(a) Penalty on Customs Hawaldar for Lack of Proof September 6, 2026 Customs Cannot Indefinitely Detain Imported Car Without Seizure Order: Gujarat HC September 6, 2026 Condonation of 968-Day Customs Appeal Delay Denied for Prolonged Inaction: Delhi HC September 5, 2026 Forged Duty Scrip Liability Upheld but Section 112 Custom Penalty Set Aside: Delhi HC September 5, 2026