Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13137 Case Name Shiv Overseas Vs Union of India & Ors. (Delhi High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Delhi High Court Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Shiv Overseas Vs Union of India & Ors. (Delhi High Court) Summary: The Delhi High Court considered a writ petition filed by M/S Shiv Overseas, which claimed to be an exporter and sought a writ of mandamus directing Respondent No.3 to forthwith transmit its withheld Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) refund. The Petitioner submitted that it had exported goods on payment of IGST during the period from 01.02.2022 to 19.03.2023 under nine shipping bills, but the refund continued to be withheld because alerts had been inserted against its Import Export Code (IEC). It was further submitted that the authorities had certified, through orders dated 08.05.2026 and 12.05.2026, that no investigation was pending against the Petitioner. On behalf of the Respondents, it was submitted that two separate alerts had been raised and that an alert raised by the Director General of Analytics and Risk Management (DGARM) on 12.01.2023 was still pending. The Respondents nevertheless submitted that the issue would be resolved positively within one week. The Court noted that the Petitioner’s refund had remained pending for more than three and a half years. As a last opportunity, the Court directed the Competent Authority to take a final decision within one week from the date of the order. The Court further directed that, if the decision was not taken within that period, the salary of the Director General of Analytics and Risk Management would not be released until a final decision was taken in the matter. With these observations, the writ petition along with the pending applications was disposed of. Paid content Become a Basic or Premium Member, or log in if you are already a Basic or Premium member. Become a Member Already a member? Log in Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgments Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,995 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Karnataka HC Restores Delayed GST Appeal Where Order Was Not Properly Uploaded September 15, 2026 Allahabad HC Sets Aside GST Appeals Orders After Company Wound Up September 15, 2026 Madras HC Declines Interference with 10% GST Penalty for Delayed GSTR-3B September 15, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Delhi HC Directs Biometric Aadhaar Authentication for Every GST Registration September 13, 2026 GST Recovery Barred while Statutory Period to Approach GSTAT still Available: Madras HC September 13, 2026 SC drops Rs. 363 crores GST Demand against Vodafone Idea Post-Merger September 13, 2026 Biometric Aadhaar Authentication Mandatory for New GST Registrations: Delhi HC September 13, 2026 Fraud Across Financial Years: Case for Bunched SCNs Under CGST Act September 12, 2026 GSTAT Kolkata allows ITC refund where packing inputs bear higher GST rate than packaged tea September 12, 2026