Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12882 Case Name Khanindra Kr. Dutta Vs Central Bureau of Investigation (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Khanindra Kr. Dutta Vs Central Bureau of Investigation (Supreme Court of India) Sixty-Two Witnesses, but No Money Trail: Section 13(1)(d) Cannot Convict Where Pecuniary Advantage Is Missing Facts of the case The prosecution arose from a complaint made by the Veterinary Department of Assam concerning an alleged loss of ₹5,97,200. The allegation was that false RCC bills had been submitted for the supply of medicines, although the medicines were never actually supplied. Payments were allegedly released in favour of a fictitious firm. Seven persons were charge-sheeted. The appellant was the officer in charge of the store, while another accused was the storekeeper. The prosecution alleged that the storekeeper made entries in the store register showing receipt of medicines and that the appellant certified those entries, even though no medicines had been received. Charges were framed u/ss 420, 465, 471 & 477A read with s.120B of the IPC and u/ss 13(1)(d) & 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. High Court found no gain—but still sustained corruption conviction The High Court accepted that the medicines shown in the records had not actually been received. At the same time, it categorically recorded that there was no evidence showing whether the appellant or the storekeeper had obtained any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage from the alleged transaction. Despite this express finding, the High Court sustained the conviction under the PC Act. This created the central contradiction examined by the Supreme Court: could an accused be convicted u/s 13(1)(d) after the Court had specifically found that no pecuniary advantage was proved? The Supreme Court answered the question in the negative. Section 13(1)(d) requires an advantage to have been “obtained” Section 13(1)(d), as it then stood, covered a public servant who, by corrupt or illegal means, by abusing his position, or while holding public office without public interest, obtained for himself or another person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage. Thus, securing a valuable thing or pecuniary advantage was not a peripheral circumstance. It was an essential ingredient of the offence. The prosecution was required to establish not merely that the official records were incorrect or that the public servant had acted irregularly. It had to prove that, through the alleged corrupt or illegal conduct or abuse of position, a valuable thing or pecuniary advantage was obtained either by the public servant or by somebody else. Once the High Court found that no such pecuniary advantage had been proved, the statutory foundation for conviction u/s 13(1)(d) disappeared. Possible IPC offence could not rescue an unsustainable PC Act conviction The Supreme Court observed that the evidence might perhaps have been appreciated differently to examine offences u/ss 420 or 477A IPC. False certification of receipt and manipulation of departmental records could potentially attract those provisions if their ingredients were independently established. However, the High Court had already acquitted the accused of all IPC offences. The CBI did not challenge that acquittal. It was, therefore, final and its benefit necessarily had to flow to the appellant. The Court could not use the possibility that the evidence might have supported some other offence to maintain a conviction under a provision whose essential ingredient was admittedly absent. The prosecution had selected a statutory road requiring proof of pecuniary advantage. Having failed to prove that advantage, it could not reach the destination merely by showing suspicious entries or administrative irregularity. A corruption trial needs evidence—not volume The prosecution examined as many as 62 witnesses. Yet the High Court found it necessary to refer to only nine of them. Eight were officers in charge of different veterinary dispensaries, examined to establish that medicines mentioned in the challans and bills had not been supplied. The ninth was the actual owner of the supplier firm, who denied supplying the medicines or receiving the money. The Supreme Court criticised the tendency in corruption cases to produce voluminous evidence, much of which may be irrelevant to proving the actual charge. Such evidence can intimidate and obscure the central issue without establishing the legal ingredients of the offence. More importantly, there was no meaningful investigation into the money trail. If departmental money had actually been disbursed against fictitious supplies, the investigating agency ought to have determined who received it, where it went and who ultimately obtained the corresponding pecuniary benefit. Proof that goods were not supplied could establish one part of the alleged transaction. It did not, by itself, prove that the appellant obtained or facilitated a pecuniary advantage within the meaning of s.13(1)(d). Departmental misconduct is not automatically criminal misconduct The alleged offence dated back to 1993. The Court observed that if the appellant had certified incorrect entries without obtaining any pecuniary advantage, the department could have initiated disciplinary proceedings and quantified the loss caused by his conduct. Administrative negligence, breach of duty or even conduct warranting departmental punishment does not automatically satisfy the ingredients of a criminal offence under the PC Act. Suspicion of misconduct cannot substitute proof of criminal misconduct. Supreme Court’s decision Finding no legal basis to sustain the conviction, the Supreme Court allowed the appeal and acquitted the appellant. It directed his immediate release if he was in custody and not required in any other case. If already on bail, his bail bonds were ordered to be cancelled. The principle is elementary but important: u/s 13(1)(d), the prosecution must prove that a valuable thing or pecuniary advantage was actually obtained. Sixty-two witnesses cannot fill that statutory gap, and a missing money trail cannot be replaced by the sheer volume of evidence. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 1. Leave granted. 2. The issue turns on a narrow compass as to whether the conviction of the appellant under Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (P.C Act) read with Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (IPC) can be sustained, when there is a clear finding of no pecuniary advantage having been obtained by them. A clear error committed by the High Court, while acquitting the accused under the various provisions including Section 420 under the IPC, but not challenged by the CBI in which event the benefit necessarily has to inure to the accused. 3. The investigation was initiated on a complaint received from the Veterinary Department of the State of Assam regarding loss of Rs.5,97,200/- having been occasioned by reason of submission of false RCC Bills for supply of medicines, which were never supplied, but payments made to a fictious firm. Seven persons were charge-sheeted, out of which four were convicted and sentenced by the trial court and three, acquitted. The three convicted filed appeal before the High Court in which one person, the accountant who passed the bill was acquitted and the appellant herein, who was the in-charge of the store and the other accused, the storekeeper, were convicted under Section 13(1)(d) of the Act. 4. The allegation was that entries were made in the store register by the other convicted accused who is the storekeeper, which was certified by the appellant herein. The charges were under Sections 420, 471, 465, 477A read with Section 120B of the IPC and Sections 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of the P.C Act. The High Court, in the impugned judgment, found that the evidence on record reveals that the storekeeper made entries in the store register and the store-in-charge certified the receipt of medicines, which were never received. However, it was categorically stated that there was no evidence on record to show as to whether any of them had obtained any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage from the alleged commission of the offence. The appellants were thus acquitted under Sections 420, 471, 465, 477A of the IPC while convicted under Sections 13(1)(d) and 13(2) of the P.C Act read with Section 120B of the IPC. 5. Section 13(1)(d) reads as under: – 13(1)(d) if he:- (i) by corrupt or illegal means, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage; or (ii) by abusing his position as a public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage; or (iii) while holding office as a public servant, obtains for any person any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest; 6. Without a pecuniary advantage, there could be no conviction under Section 13(1)(d), which the High Court has categorically found, does not exist in the present case. In fact, the evidence could have been read otherwise, to attract the provisions under the IPC; if not all of that charged, at least Sections 420 & 477A, which the High Court failed to do. The CBI too failed to challenge the erroneous order passed by the High Court. The offence alleged is of the year 1993 and as submitted by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant, if there was no pecuniary advantage obtained, the department could have initiated disciplinary proceedings and even quantified the loss, which was not done. 7. We cannot but notice that in corruption cases voluminous evidence is led, which is often intimidating to the Court, especially since many aspects attempted to be led in evidence are way off the mark, in providing a substantiation of the allegation, or to bring home the guilt of the accused-public servant. In this case the prosecution has examined 62 witnesses, obviously to no avail, since the High Court refers to only 9 of such witnesses; 8 being the in-charge of the Veterinary Dispensaries in the various parts of the State, at the relevant period to prove the supply of medicines having not been effected, as per the challans issued and bills passed. The one other witness referred to is the actual owner of the firm, who was the supplier, who appeared and denied receipt of any money or even the supply of medicines. 8. We do not see any investigation having been taken to find out the money trail when the amounts were so disbursed from the department. Prosecution in corruption cases have a history of long pendency; especially because of the voluminous evidence led, which often is unnecessary and as we noticed, mostly irrelevant. Be that as it may, in the present case, we find absolutely no reason to uphold the conviction under the provision in which the High Court has chosen to convict the appellant. 9. The appellant hence shall stand acquitted and if he is in custody, shall be released forthwith if not required in any other case. If he is already on bail, then the bail bonds shall stand cancelled. 10. Criminal Appeal stands allowed and pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,332 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty Partner’s Right in Unsold Firm Assets Survives Until Actual Settlement: SC September 10, 2026 Penny Stock Label Alone Cannot Convert Exempt LTCG Into Section 68 Addition: Delhi ITAT September 10, 2026 Rent Paid to Earn Subletting Income Deductible Under Section 57: ITAT Delhi September 10, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Excepted-Matter Objection Must First Be Decided by Arbitral Tribunal: SC September 10, 2026 Arbitration Clause in Loan Agreement Binds Guarantor Through Contractual Incorporation: SC September 10, 2026 FR 56(j) Compulsory Retirement Cannot Rest on Unverified Allegations: SC September 10, 2026 Some Access Is Not Adequate Access Under Zero Period Policy: SC September 10, 2026 State-Funded Free Travel Scheme Not Prima Facie Abuse of Dominance: CCI September 10, 2026 CCPA Penalises Zen Restaurant for Default Service Charge Levy September 10, 2026