Summary: The Goods and Services Tax Appellate Tribunal (GSTAT) provides a specialised appellate forum for disputes arising under the GST framework. For several years after GST was introduced, the absence of a fully functional tribunal created difficulties for taxpayers seeking to pursue second appeals against orders of appellate or revisional authorities. GSTAT was formally launched in September 2025, with its benches progressively becoming operational during 2026. The Tribunal combines judicial and technical expertise and is intended to address disputes involving tax demands, input tax credit, classification, valuation, refunds, penalties and other GST issues. Its e-Courts Portal also facilitates online filing, case tracking and digital participation in proceedings. GSTAT may reduce dependence on High Courts for disputes capable of resolution at the tribunal level and contribute to greater consistency in GST interpretation. However, its effectiveness will depend on practical factors such as disposal of accumulated appeals, availability of members and infrastructure, reliability of digital systems, timely hearings and pronouncement of orders. The large volume of backlog appeals and technical difficulties experienced during filing demonstrate the scale of the implementation challenge. GSTAT therefore represents an important institutional reform, but its contribution to faster and more efficient GST dispute resolution will ultimately depend on the functioning of its benches and their ability to dispose of existing and future appeals efficiently. Table of Contents▸ Introduction What is GSTAT? Why was GSTAT needed? 1. Specialised GST expertise 2. Reduction in litigation before High Courts 3. Faster disposal of cases 4. Digital filing and hearings 5. Greater consistency in GST interpretation Current progress of GSTAT Challenges before GSTAT 1. Large number of pending appeals 2. Infrastructure and staffing 3. Technical difficulties 4. Need for timely orders Will GSTAT resolve GST disputes more efficiently? Conclusion Show all 16 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction The Goods and Services Tax (GST) was introduced in India in 2017 with the objective of creating a unified indirect tax system. However, the implementation of GST has also resulted in several disputes relating to tax demands, input tax credit, classification of goods and services, refunds, penalties and other issues. For several years, the absence of a fully functional appellate tribunal created difficulties for taxpayers who wanted to challenge GST orders. The Goods and Services Tax Appellate Tribunal (GSTAT) was created to address this gap and provide a specialised forum for GST-related appeals. The GSTAT was formally launched in September 2025, and its benches have progressively become operational during 2026. The important question now is: Will GSTAT actually make GST dispute resolution faster and more efficient? What is GSTAT? The Goods and Services Tax Appellate Tribunal, commonly known as GSTAT, is the specialised appellate forum for GST disputes. Under Section 109 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017,, the Appellate Tribunal hears appeals against orders passed by the Appellate Authority or Revisional Authority. GSTAT consists of a Principal Bench and State Benches. Its structure includes judicial and technical members, allowing both legal and taxation-related issues to be examined. The Tribunal is therefore intended to provide taxpayers with a specialised and independent forum before they approach the High Court. Why was GSTAT needed? Before the effective functioning of GSTAT, taxpayers faced a major problem: there was no functioning GST appellate tribunal to hear second appeals. As a result, many disputes could remain pending or move towards constitutional courts. This could increase litigation costs and delay the final resolution of tax disputes. The establishment of GSTAT aims to fill this institutional gap and create a specialised appellate mechanism for GST disputes. How can GSTAT improve dispute resolution? 1. Specialised GST expertise GST disputes can involve complicated questions relating to input tax credit, place of supply, classification, valuation and interpretation of GST provisions. A specialised tribunal with judicial and technical members can examine both the legal and technical aspects of these disputes. 2. Reduction in litigation before High Courts GSTAT provides an appellate level between the departmental authorities and the High Courts. This can allow many GST disputes to be resolved at the tribunal level instead of immediately moving to constitutional courts. 3. Faster disposal of cases One of the major objectives of GSTAT is to reduce delays in tax litigation. When the Tribunal becomes fully functional across different locations, taxpayers may have easier access to an appellate forum without having to depend entirely on High Courts for GST disputes. 4. Digital filing and hearings A significant feature of GSTAT is its e-Courts Portal. The portal allows taxpayers and professionals to file appeals online, track cases and participate in proceedings digitally. Digital processes can reduce paperwork and make the appellate process more accessible. 5. Greater consistency in GST interpretation GST is a nationwide tax system. Different interpretations by different authorities can create uncertainty for taxpayers. A specialised appellate tribunal can contribute to greater consistency in interpreting GST provisions. The GST Council has also highlighted consistency in advance rulings and greater certainty for taxpayers as important objectives of the GSTAT framework. Current progress of GSTAT GSTAT is no longer merely a proposed institution. It has entered the operational stage. The Government formally launched GSTAT in September 2025. The Tribunal’s framework includes 32 benches at 45 locations, according to a January 2026 government release. Several benches have subsequently commenced hearings. For example, the Chennai Bench began its first hearing in June 2026, while the Bengaluru Bench commenced court hearings in August 2026. The Government has also taken steps to facilitate the filing of older appeals. In June 2026, the deadline for filing certain backlog appeals before GSTAT was extended to 31 July 2026, following concerns about technical difficulties and a very high volume of filings. The Government reported that around 30,000 appeals had been filed during the final 15 days before the earlier deadline. This shows both the demand for GSTAT and the practical challenges involved in handling a large number of appeals. Challenges before GSTAT Although GSTAT has the potential to improve dispute resolution, its success will depend on how effectively it operates. 1. Large number of pending appeals The Tribunal has inherited a substantial volume of disputes that accumulated during the period when the appellate mechanism was not fully operational. Handling this backlog efficiently will be one of its biggest challenges. 2. Infrastructure and staffing The effectiveness of a tribunal depends not only on the law but also on adequate benches, members, staff and technological infrastructure. If vacancies or administrative delays occur, the objective of speedy justice could be affected. 3. Technical difficulties The extension of the 2026 appeal-filing deadline because of technical difficulties on the GSTAT portal demonstrates that digitalisation itself can create implementation challenges. Therefore, technology must be supported by reliable infrastructure and adequate assistance for taxpayers and professionals. 4. Need for timely orders Creating a tribunal does not automatically guarantee speedy justice. The real test will be whether GSTAT can ensure timely listing, hearings and pronouncement of orders while maintaining the quality of legal reasoning. Will GSTAT resolve GST disputes more efficiently? The answer will depend on its actual performance over time. There are strong structural reasons why GSTAT can improve the GST dispute-resolution system: it is specialised, has multiple benches, incorporates judicial and technical expertise, and uses digital filing and case-management facilities. At the same time, its effectiveness cannot be measured merely by its establishment. The backlog of cases, number of functioning benches, vacancies, technological capacity and time taken to dispose of appeals will be important indicators. Therefore, GSTAT should be viewed as an important institutional reform whose success will depend on effective implementation rather than simply its existence. Conclusion The GST Appellate Tribunal represents an important development in India’s indirect tax administration. It provides taxpayers with a dedicated appellate forum and has the potential to reduce litigation delays, improve consistency and make GST dispute resolution more accessible. However, the real question is not whether GSTAT has been created, but whether it can deliver timely and consistent justice to taxpayers. As GSTAT continues to expand its operations across India, its performance in clearing the existing backlog and resolving new disputes efficiently will determine whether it fulfils the objective for which it was established. In simple words, GSTAT has created the missing appellate layer in the GST system. The next challenge is making that layer work efficiently. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGSTAT Author Info Name: Jennifer Francis Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: Lovely professional University punjab Location: Jalandhar, Punjab Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Jennifer Francis GST’S effects on India’s federalism February 20, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Contractors’ Purchases from Unregistered Dealers Attract Purchase Tax: Madras HC September 25, 2026 Bombay High Court Quashes GST Notice Covering Three Financial Years September 25, 2026 Punjab and Haryana HC Grants Bail in Alleged ₹156 Crore GST Evasion Case September 25, 2026 Reasonable Period for Section 76 SCN Can Be Examined in GST Appeal: Delhi HC September 25, 2026 Accounts & Record under CGST ACT: Compliance, Evidence & Legal Consequences. September 25, 2026 Composite or Mixed Supply? Determining GST Liability in Real-World Transactions September 24, 2026