Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12739 Case Name Pushpa S. Amin Vs ITO (ITAT Mumbai Bench) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Related Assessment Year 2018-19 Courts All ITAT, ITAT Mumbai Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Pushpa S. Amin Vs ITO (ITAT Mumbai Bench) Stamp Duty Value Cannot Create a Property That Was Never Received—ITAT Deletes ₹25.51 Lakh Addition u/s 56(2)(x) The controversy The assessee, Ms. Pushpa S. Amin, had acquired a residential property under a principal agreement executed in March 2006. Following amendments to the Development Control Regulations and consequent alterations to the sanctioned building plan, a supplementary agreement was executed on 6 December 2017. According to the assessee, the supplementary agreement merely incorporated changes necessitated by the revised building plan. It did not increase the overall area already allotted, confer any fresh proprietary right or require payment of additional consideration. The AO, however, interpreted the supplementary agreement as granting the assessee a car-parking space for nil consideration. Since the supplementary instrument carried a stamp-duty value of ₹25,51,474, the AO treated that amount as income under s.56(2)(x). The CIT(A) confirmed the addition. The assessee approached the Mumbai ITAT. 120-day delay condoned The appeal before the Tribunal was delayed by approximately 120 days. The assessee, a senior citizen, explained through an affidavit that she had not received a physical copy of the CIT(A)’s order and did not regularly access her e-mail. She had also travelled outside India between 25 October & 15 November 2025. She became aware of the appellate order only upon receiving a penalty notice under s.270A dated 6 March 2026. She thereafter consulted her Chartered Accountant and promptly initiated steps to file the appeal. Applying the justice-oriented approach prescribed by the Supreme Court in Collector, Land Acquisition v. Mst. Katiji, the Tribunal found sufficient cause. Considering the assessee’s age and the absence of deliberate or mala fide delay, the appeal was admitted. Receipt of property is the foundational requirement On merits, the ITAT examined the statutory condition underlying s.56(2)(x). The provision, insofar as relevant, presupposes that the assessee has received an immovable property during the relevant previous year without consideration or for inadequate consideration. Execution or registration of an instrument during the year is not sufficient by itself. Nor can the mere attribution of a stamp-duty value to the instrument automatically trigger the provision. The Revenue must first establish that the instrument resulted in the assessee receiving land, a building, both, or a distinct proprietary interest falling within the statutory definition of property. Only after this foundational condition is satisfied does the stamp-duty valuation become relevant for quantifying the taxable difference. Supplementary agreement did not confer fresh property The residential property already stood acquired under the principal agreement of March 2006. The supplementary agreement of December 2017 was executed because the Development Control Regulations and building plan had changed. There was no finding that the assessee received an additional flat, additional overall area or an independent parcel of immovable property for the first time during FY 2017-18. There was also no finding that the developer demanded or the assessee paid any additional consideration under the supplementary agreement. The lower authorities principally relied upon the absence of a specific reference to car parking in the original agreement and the stamp-duty value assigned to the supplementary document. The ITAT held that these two circumstances, without more, could not prove receipt of a separate immovable property or an independent additional proprietary right during the year. Improvement of existing right is not fresh receipt The Tribunal relied upon Bipinchandra Shantilal Shah v. ITO, where protected tenancy rights in an existing property were converted into ownership rights. In that case, the co-ordinate Bench held that s.56(2)(x) contemplates receipt of land or building or both and cannot be extended to a mere improvement or enlargement of a right already held by the assessee. Acquisition of ownership rights in the same premises occupied as a protected tenant was therefore not treated as receipt of fresh immovable property. The ITAT also relied upon Anil Dattaram Pitale v. ITO, involving redevelopment of an existing flat. The assessee received a new flat in exchange for the old flat, and the AO sought to invoke s.56(2)(x) with reference to the stamp-duty difference. The Tribunal had held that receipt of a replacement flat pursuant to redevelopment was not a gratuitous receipt of immovable property for inadequate consideration because the new property was obtained in lieu of the existing property rights. Stamp valuation follows chargeability—not vice versa Applying these principles, the ITAT held that the supplementary agreement merely reflected modifications arising from the amended building plan. The Revenue failed to establish that the assessee received any fresh immovable property or independently transferable additional property right in FY 2017-18. A stamp valuation cannot itself establish the existence of a taxable receipt. The correct sequence is: first identify receipt of a property covered by s.56(2)(x); only thereafter examine its stamp-duty value and consideration. The Revenue had reversed this sequence by treating the valuation assigned to the document as proof that a new property had been received. The addition of ₹25,51,474 under s.56(2)(x) was accordingly deleted. Since the appeal succeeded on merits, the alternative ground concerning co-ownership and the ground challenging the validity of reassessment were treated as academic and left open. Author’s comments The judgment draws a crucial distinction between documentation of an existing right & receipt of a new property. Supplementary agreements are common where sanctioned plans, development regulations, area configurations or amenities change during prolonged construction. Every registered amendment carrying a stamp-duty value cannot generate income under s.56(2)(x). Car parking may, depending upon the governing documents and property law, be an amenity appurtenant to the flat rather than a separate immovable property. The decisive enquiry is whether the later agreement confers a fresh, independent & valuable proprietary right that the assessee did not previously possess. The ruling does not grant blanket immunity to supplementary agreements. If additional area, another unit or a separately transferable right is received without adequate consideration, s.56(2)(x) may apply. But valuation is only a measure of tax after the charge arises. It cannot manufacture the very taxable event it is supposed to measure. Pushpa S. Amin v. ITO, ITA No.3363/Mum/2026, AY 2018-19, order dated 17 August 2026, Mumbai ITAT. Cases Discussed Collector, Land Acquisition, Anantnag v. Mst. Katiji & Ors., (1987) 2 SCC 107 Bipinchandra Shantilal Shah v. ITO, ITA No.2933/Mum/2023, order dated 22.10.2024 Anil Dattaram Pitale v. ITO, ITA No.465/Mum/2025, order dated 17.03.2025 FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF ITAT, MUMBAI 1. This appeal has been preferred by the ASSESSEE against the order dated 11.09.2025, impugned herein, passed by the Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals) (in short Ld. Commissioner) u/s 250 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (in short ‘the Act’) for the A.Y. 2018-19, confirming the addition of Rs. 25,51,474/- made by the Assessing Officer under section 56(2)(x) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (“the Act”). 2. At the outset, it is observed that the appeal is delayed by about 120 days. The Assessee, being a senior citizen, thus has filed an application, supported by an affidavit, explaining that he did not receive the physical copy of the appellate order, was not regularly accessing his e-mail, and was also travelling outside India from 25.10.2025 to 15.11.2025. It is further stated that she became aware of the impugned order only upon receipt of notice under section 270A dated 06.03.2026, where after, he consulted his Chartered Accountant and took steps for filing the present appeal. 3. On the contrary, the Ld. DR refuted the claim of the Assessee qua condonation of delay. 4. We have considered the rival submissions of the parties qua delay. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Collector, Land Acquisition, Anantnag v. Mst. Katiji & Ors., (1987) 2 SCC 107, has held that, while considering condonation of delay, a justice-oriented approach should be adopted, particularly where the delay is not deliberate or mala fide. Considering the explanation furnished, the age of the Assessee, and the circumstances stated in the affidavit, we find sufficient cause for the delay. Thus, in the interest of substantial justice, the delay is condoned and the appeal is admitted for adjudication on merits. 5. Coming to the merits of case, we observe that the Assessee had acquired the residential property under the principal agreement executed in March 2006. Subsequently, a supplementary agreement dated 06.12.2017 was executed, according to the Assessee, consequent to amendments in the Development Control Regulations and corresponding changes in the building plan. The Assessee has specifically contended that there was no overall increase in the area already allotted, no additional right was conferred, and no additional consideration was either demanded or paid. The Assessing Officer, however, treated the supplementary agreement, as involving acquisition of a car parking space for nil consideration, having stamp duty value of Rs. 25,51,474/-, and invoked section 56(2)(x), which action was sustained by the Ld. Commissioner. 6. We have heard the parties, perused the material available on record and given thoughtful consideration to the rival claims of the parties. The applicability of section 56(2)(x), insofar as relevant, presupposes receipt of an immovable property by the Assessee during the relevant previous year. Thus, though an instrument may have been executed or registered during the year and may have been subjected to stamp duty valuation, however, the essential requirement remains that the Assessee should have received an immovable property contemplated under the said provision. 7. In Bipinchandra Shantilal Shah v. ITO, ITA No.2933/Mum/2023, order dated 22.10.2024, the coordinate bench considered the applicability of section 56(2)(x) where pre-existing tenancy rights were converted into ownership rights. After examining the statutory definition of “property”, the Tribunal held that section 56(2)(x) contemplates receipt of land or building or both, and cannot be extended to an improvement of a right already held by the Assessee. It was, accordingly, held that acquisition of ownership rights in the very property already occupied by the Assessee, as a protected tenant did not amount to receipt of immovable property for the purposes of section 56(2)(x). 8. Similarly, in Anil Dattaram Pitale v. ITO, ITA No.465/Mum/2025, order dated 17.03.2025, the Assessee, pursuant to redevelopment, received a new flat in lieu of his old flat and the Assessing Officer sought to tax the difference with reference to the stamp duty value under section 56(2)(x). The coordinate bench held that, since the new flat was received in lieu of the old flat, it was not a case of receipt of immovable property for inadequate consideration falling within section 56(2)(x), and deleted the addition. 9. In the present case also, though the supplementary agreement was executed on 06.12.2017 and a stamp duty value was attributed thereto, however, the Revenue has not established that, under the said agreement, the Assessee received any fresh immovable property, or any independent additional proprietary right, for the first time during the relevant previous year. The property already stood acquired under the principal agreement of March 2006 and, as per the case of the Assessee, the supplementary agreement merely incorporated the changes arising from the amended building plan. Further, there is no finding that any additional consideration was demanded from, or paid by, the Assessee under the supplementary agreement. Thus, the ratio laid down in Bipinchandra Shantilal Shah and Anil Dattaram Pitale, in our considered view, squarely supports the case of the Assessee. 10. Though the lower authorities have relied upon the absence of a specific reference to car parking in the earlier agreement and upon the stamp duty valuation of the supplementary instrument, however, these circumstances, by themselves, cannot establish receipt of a separate immovable property during the year. The stamp duty valuation would become relevant only upon first establishing a transaction falling within the ambit of section 56(2)(x). Thus, in the absence of material establishing that the Assessee acquired a fresh property, or an additional independent property right, under the supplementary agreement dated 06.12.2017, the foundational requirement for invoking section 56(2)(x) is not satisfied. 11. Accordingly, respectfully following the aforesaid decisions of the coordinate benches, we are of the considered view that the addition of Rs. 25,51,474/- made by the Assessing Officer under section 56(2)(x), and sustained by the Ld. Commissioner, is unsustainable. Thus, the same is, accordingly, deleted. 12. In view of our decision on merits, the alternative ground relating to co-ownership and the ground challenging the validity of reassessment are rendered academic and, therefore, are left open. 13. In the result, the Assessee’s appeal is allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 17.08.2026. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under ITAT JudgmentsSection 250 Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,264 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty Third-Party Tally Under Scrutiny: Bad Debts Allowed, Interest Additions Deleted September 8, 2026 ITAT Condones 308-Day Delay, Revives CPC Adjustment Appeal September 8, 2026 ITAT Admits Fresh Bank & Demat Evidence Under Rule 29 in Penny Stock Case September 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Third-Party Tally Under Scrutiny: Bad Debts Allowed, Interest Additions Deleted September 8, 2026 ITAT Condones 308-Day Delay, Revives CPC Adjustment Appeal September 8, 2026 Bad-Debt Provision Allowed as Individual Debtor Accounts Were Written Off: ITAT Mumbai September 8, 2026 ITAT Admits Fresh Bank & Demat Evidence Under Rule 29 in Penny Stock Case September 8, 2026 Return-Schedule Error Cannot Create Section 115BBI Liability: ITAT Mumbai September 8, 2026 ITAT Mumbai Allows Depreciation on Slump Sale Goodwill, Rejects Non-Compete Claim September 8, 2026