Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13388 Case Name PCIT (Central III) & Anr. Vs BPTP Limited (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); PCIT (Central III) & Anr. Vs BPTP Limited (Supreme Court of India) Background and High Court Proceedings BPTP Limited, a real-estate company, had its assessments for AY 2012-13 and AY 2013-14 completed under Section 143(3) of the Income Tax Act. During the original assessment proceedings, the Assessing Officer had sought information relating, inter alia, to TDS, project-wise costs and Government dues, including External Development Charges (EDC) paid to the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA). After more than four years from the end of the relevant assessment years, notices under Section 148 were issued proposing reassessment. The recorded reasons proceeded on the basis that EDC payments to HUDA were subject to TDS and that failure to deduct TDS attracted disallowance under Section 40(a)(ia). The assessee challenged the reopening before the Delhi High Court. The assessee contended that the relevant EDC and TDS information had already been disclosed during the original scrutiny assessments and that reopening after four years was therefore barred by the proviso to Section 147. It also contended that the Assessing Officer had incorrectly invoked Section 194, which concerns dividends, and that EDC was a statutory charge rather than a payment subject to TDS. The Revenue argued that the writ petitions should not be entertained at the stage of initiation of reassessment proceedings because statutory remedies were available. On merits, it contended that EDC payments could attract TDS and that merely referring to an incorrect statutory provision would not invalidate the reopening if the power otherwise existed in law. Delhi High Court’s Reasoning The Delhi High Court examined the proviso to Section 147, which imposes additional conditions where reassessment is initiated after four years from the end of the relevant assessment year. The Court held that, in such circumstances, escapement of income must result from the assessee’s failure to make a return or failure to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for the assessment. The Court found that the original scrutiny proceedings had specifically sought information concerning withholding tax and that details concerning TDS and EDC payments had been furnished to the Assessing Officer. Consequently, the Court held that there was no failure by the assessee to disclose the relevant material facts. The Court further observed that reopening could not be used as a mechanism for reviewing an earlier assessment on a mere change of opinion. There had to be relevant tangible material having a live link with the formation of the belief that income had escaped assessment. The recorded reasons also stated that EDC was covered by Section 194, without explaining the basis for treating EDC as a payment attracting that provision. The High Court noted that Section 194 concerns dividends and found no rationale in the recorded reasons for treating statutory EDC payments as subject to that provision. The Revenue’s subsequent attempt to characterise EDC as rent was also rejected as a basis for sustaining the reopening. The Court held that the Revenue could not supplement the recorded reasons through its counter-affidavit by introducing a new legal basis. It also noted that the recorded reasons did not adequately address the proviso to Section 40(a)(ia). Accordingly, the Delhi High Court allowed the writ petitions and quashed the notices dated 02.11.2018 relating to AY 2012-13 and AY 2013-14 and the proceedings emanating from them. Supreme Court Challenge The Revenue challenged the High Court’s decision before the Supreme Court of India. The special leave petition concerned the Delhi High Court’s order in the BPTP reassessment proceedings. The Supreme Court recorded that the delay was condoned and thereafter dismissed the special leave petition. The Court also directed that the pending application stood disposed of. Final Ruling and Effect The Supreme Court’s order was confined to condoning the delay and dismissing the special leave petition. It did not set out separate reasoning addressing the issues considered in detail by the Delhi High Court. Consequently, the Delhi High Court’s judgment, which had quashed the reassessment notices under Sections 147/148 for AY 2012-13 and AY 2013-14, remained undisturbed by the Supreme Court’s dismissal of the special leave petition. Alternative SEO Titles — 5ST Supreme Court Dismisses SLP Against BPTP Reassessment Ruling BPTP Reassessment: Supreme Court Dismisses Revenue’s SLP Delhi HC Reassessment Order Against BPTP Remains Undisturbed BPTP Limited: Supreme Court Dismisses Challenge to Reopening Reassessment After Four Years: BPTP Ruling Remains Undisturbed Read Delhi HC Order in this case: S. 147/148 AO cannot review his decision & reopen on a change of opinion FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER Delay condoned. The special leave petition is dismissed. Pending application stands disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,049 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Coal Transportation with Incidental Loading Not Cargo Handling Service: Delhi CESTAT September 20, 2026 ITAT Jaipur Allows Section 80JJAA, 80-IA and MEIS Claims; Disallows Delayed PF/ESI September 20, 2026 Raipur ITAT Restricts Section 272A(2)(e) Penalty to Section 139(4) Filing Period September 20, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax ITAT Jaipur Allows Section 80JJAA, 80-IA and MEIS Claims; Disallows Delayed PF/ESI September 20, 2026 Raipur ITAT Restricts Section 272A(2)(e) Penalty to Section 139(4) Filing Period September 20, 2026 MEIS Reward Not Income under Section 2(24)(xviii) & is Capital Receipt: Delhi ITAT September 20, 2026 MEIS Scrip Sale Proceeds Capital Receipts, Not Taxable: ITAT Chennai September 20, 2026 Unsigned, Unstamped Sale Agreement Cannot Prove Cash Receipt: ITAT Deletes Section 271DA Penalty September 19, 2026 Section 69A Addition Deleted for Excel-Sheet Entries Without Unexplained Money: Delhi ITAT September 19, 2026