When Can GST Officers Visit Business Premises for Verification, Audit, Inspection, Search or Seizure? Summary: GST officers may visit the business premises of a registered person under different statutory provisions, and the nature, authority, threshold and consequences of each visit vary significantly. Rule 25 primarily concerns physical verification of the declared place of business and requires the verification report with supporting documents and photographs to be uploaded in FORM GST REG-30. Section 65 permits a formal departmental audit, ordinarily after at least 15 working days’ notice in FORM GST ADT-01, with audit findings communicated in FORM GST ADT-02. Section 71 provides authorised access to business premises for audit, scrutiny, verification and revenue checks, but does not itself confer unrestricted search or seizure powers. Section 67(1) concerns inspection where the competent officer has reasons to believe that specified tax-evasion circumstances exist, while Section 67(2) provides the more intrusive power of search and seizure where qualifying goods, documents, books or things are believed to be secreted. Section 67(12) separately permits a test purchase to verify whether the required tax invoice or bill of supply is being issued. The article distinguishes these powers by severity, statutory requirements, permissible action and prior-notice requirements. It also explains that an ordinary verification cannot automatically become an audit or search, and Section 71 access cannot be used as a substitute for the statutory requirements governing Section 67. Accordingly, the seriousness of a GST officer’s visit must be assessed by identifying the provision invoked, the authority possessed, the action undertaken and the consequences that may legally follow. Table of Contents▸ Introduction 1. GST Officer's Visit – Severity at a Glance 2. Physical Verification of Business Premises – Rule 25 Nature of Proceeding Severity What Can the Officer Do? Possible Consequence 3. Departmental Audit – Section 65 Nature of Proceeding Severity What Can the Officer Do? Possible Consequence 4. Access to Business Premises – Section 71 Nature of Proceeding Severity What Can the Officer Do? Possible Consequence Important Limitation 5. Inspection – Section 67(1) Nature of Proceeding Severity What Can the Officer Do? Possible Consequence 6. Search and Seizure – Section 67(2) Nature of Proceeding Severity What Can the Officer Do? Possible Consequence 7. Section 67(1) vs Section 67(2) – Essential Difference 8. Test Purchase – Section 67(12) Nature of Proceeding Severity What Can the Officer Do? Possible Consequence 9. Does Every GST Visit Require Prior Notice? Conclusion Show all 36 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction In recent times, visits by GST officers to the business premises of registered persons have become an important area of concern for taxpayers. Such visits may take place for different purposes and under different provisions of the CGST Act and Rules. In some cases, the visit may be limited to physical verification of the registered premises, while in other cases it may relate to departmental audit, scrutiny or verification of records, inspection on the basis of suspected tax evasion, or even search and seizure in more serious circumstances. In this article, I have discussed the various situations in which GST officers can visit the business premises of a registered person, the statutory provisions governing such visits, the extent of powers available to the officers, the seriousness of each proceeding and the possible action that may follow. In case you have any doubt after reading this article, or if you feel that any practical aspect requires further discussion, you may contact me at the contact details mentioned at the end of this article. Each of these situations is governed by a separate statutory provision and the powers available to the GST officer are also different in each case. Therefore, it is important for a registered person to understand when a GST officer can visit the business premises, under which provision such visit can be made, what powers the officer can exercise during the visit, and what action may follow thereafter. The principal provisions relevant to such visits are Rule 25, Section 65, Section 71, Section 67(1), Section 67(2) and Section 67(12) of the CGST law. 1. GST Officer’s Visit – Severity at a Glance Provision Nature of Visit Severity Main Action Available to Officer Rule 25 Physical verification of business premises Low to Moderate Verify whether the declared business premises actually exists and report findings Section 65 Departmental audit Moderate Conduct formal audit, identify discrepancies and communicate audit findings Section 71 Access to business premises Moderate Enter authorised business premises for audit, scrutiny, verification and revenue checks Section 67(1) Inspection High Inspect specified premises where there are reasons to believe that specified tax evasion/contravention exists Section 67(2) Search and seizure Very High Search for concealed material and seize qualifying goods, documents, books or things Section 67(12) Test purchase Low Make a test purchase to check whether proper invoice/bill is being issued The powers therefore progressively become more serious from verification → audit/access → inspection → search and seizure. 2. Physical Verification of Business Premises – Rule 25 Nature of Proceeding Rule 25 deals primarily with verification of the genuineness and physical existence of the declared place of business. It may be used in specified registration situations before registration or, where considered necessary, even after registration has been granted. Under Rule 25, the verification report together with supporting documents and photographs is uploaded in FORM GST REG-30. Severity Low to Moderate This is ordinarily a verification exercise and should not be equated with an investigation or search. What Can the Officer Do? The officer may physically visit the declared premises and determine whether: the premises actually exists; the taxpayer is operating from that location; and the factual position corresponds with the registration particulars. The officer then records his findings in the field verification report. Possible Consequence If everything is found correct, the verification ordinarily ends there. If serious discrepancies are found—for example, the declared business premises does not exist or no business is being conducted there—the findings may become the basis for separate proceedings relating to registration or other appropriate action under GST law. Importantly, Rule 25 itself is a verification provision; it does not by itself constitute a search-and-seizure power. 3. Departmental Audit – Section 65 Nature of Proceeding Section 65 permits the Commissioner or an authorised officer to conduct a formal departmental audit of a registered person. The audit may be conducted: at the registered person’s place of business; or at the office of the Department. The taxpayer must ordinarily receive at least 15 working days’ prior notice before commencement of audit. The prescribed notice is FORM GST ADT-01. Severity Moderate An audit is more serious than a normal physical verification because the officer examines the taxpayer’s GST compliance for the selected period. However, an audit is still fundamentally different from an inspection or search based upon suspected evasion. What Can the Officer Do? The authorised officer can examine the taxpayer’s compliance, seek necessary information and identify discrepancies relating to GST liability, ITC, refunds or other compliance issues. The audit is ordinarily required to be completed within three months from commencement, extendable by the Commissioner, for reasons recorded in writing, by a further period not exceeding six months. Possible Consequence After completion of audit, the proper officer must communicate the findings, rights and obligations of the registered person within 30 days. Under Rule 101, the audit findings are communicated in FORM GST ADT-02. If no material discrepancy is found, the matter may end with the audit findings. Where tax short-payment, excess ITC, erroneous refund or another material discrepancy is detected, the Department may initiate appropriate proceedings under the applicable provisions of the CGST Act. Section 65 is a formal compliance examination which may result in further proceedings, but it does not itself amount to search and seizure. 4. Access to Business Premises – Section 71 Nature of Proceeding Section 71 gives an authorised GST officer access to the place of business of a registered person for: audit; scrutiny; verification; and checks necessary to safeguard the interest of revenue. The visiting officer must be authorised by a proper officer not below the rank of Joint Commissioner. Severity Moderate Section 71 is more than a simple registration verification because it enables the Department to enter the business premises for substantive GST verification. However, it is not the same as an inspection or search under Section 67. Most importantly, Section 71 itself does not expressly require “reasons to believe” that tax evasion has taken place. What Can the Officer Do? The officer can access the business premises and examine those business records, systems and other relevant material which are necessary for the audit, scrutiny or verification being undertaken. The emphasis under Section 71 is therefore: Access and verification of relevant business material. It is not: Search for concealed material. Possible Consequence If nothing adverse is found, the verification may conclude without further action. Where discrepancies or possible contraventions are noticed, the information gathered may form the basis for: further scrutiny; audit; investigation; or other appropriate proceedings under GST law. Important Limitation Section 71 does not itself give an unrestricted power to: search concealed places; break open locked areas; or exercise general seizure powers. If the actual nature of the proceeding becomes a search for hidden or concealed material, the conditions of Section 67 become relevant. 5. Inspection – Section 67(1) Nature of Proceeding Section 67(1) marks a significant increase in seriousness. It is not an ordinary verification provision. The proper officer not below the rank of Joint Commissioner must have reasons to believe that specified circumstances relating to tax evasion exist. These broadly include situations where a taxable person is believed to have: suppressed transactions relating to supply; suppressed stock; claimed ITC in excess of entitlement; or contravened GST law with an intention to evade tax. The provision also covers specified circumstances involving transporters, warehouses, godowns and similar places connected with possible tax evasion. Severity High The expression “reasons to believe” is important because Section 67(1) cannot ordinarily be invoked merely for a routine or casual verification. There must be a statutory basis for the belief that specified tax-evasion circumstances exist. What Can the Officer Do? The competent officer can issue a written authorisation permitting an officer to inspect the specified premises. Under Rule 139(1), the authorisation is issued in FORM GST INS-01. The officer can inspect the premises and examine the factual position relating to the suspected contravention. Possible Consequence Where the inspection does not substantiate the suspicion, proceedings may not necessarily progress further. However, if evidence of suppression, wrongful ITC or other tax evasion is discovered, it may lead to: further investigation; search proceedings where statutory conditions exist; demand proceedings; confiscation-related proceedings where applicable; or other action available under GST law. Inspection under Section 67(1) is not automatically a search and seizure under Section 67(2). 6. Search and Seizure – Section 67(2) Nature of Proceeding Section 67(2) is substantially more serious than Section 67(1). It applies where the proper officer not below the rank of Joint Commissioner has reasons to believe that: goods liable to confiscation; or documents, books or things useful or relevant to GST proceedings are secreted in any place. Section 67(2) may be invoked either after an inspection under Section 67(1) or independently, because the provision expressly uses the words “pursuant to an inspection carried out under sub-section (1) or otherwise.” Severity Very High This is the most intrusive category of business-premises visit discussed in this article. Unlike verification or inspection, the object of a search is to actively locate material which the Department believes has been concealed or secreted. What Can the Officer Do? The competent officer may: himself conduct the search and seizure; or authorise another officer in writing. Where the statutory conditions are satisfied, qualifying goods, documents, books or things may be seized. The procedural forms include: GST INS-01 – Authorisation for inspection/search; GST INS-02 – Order of seizure; and GST INS-03 – Prohibition order where physical seizure of goods is not practicable. Where access is denied, Section 67(4) also confers powers upon the authorised search officer to seal or break open specified premises, almirahs, electronic devices, boxes or receptacles where relevant material is suspected to be concealed. Possible Consequence A Section 67(2) search may lead to serious subsequent proceedings depending upon what is discovered, including: seizure; prohibition against dealing with goods; confiscation-related proceedings; determination of tax liability; penalty proceedings; or other investigation/prosecution consequences where the statutory requirements are independently satisfied. Section 67(2) represents an investigative search power and should not be equated with an ordinary GST verification visit. 7. Section 67(1) vs Section 67(2) – Essential Difference The distinction can be stated very simply: Particular Section 67(1) Section 67(2) Nature Inspection Search and seizure Severity High Very High Statutory basis Reasons to believe specified tax evasion exists Reasons to believe relevant goods/material are secreted Main action Inspect specified premises Search for concealed material Seizure Not merely because inspection is authorised Permitted subject to statutory conditions Prior 67(1) inspection necessary? — No Section 67(1) is intended to inspect a suspected contravention. Section 67(2) is intended to search for and seize qualifying material believed to be concealed. 8. Test Purchase – Section 67(12) Nature of Proceeding Section 67(12) is a narrowly targeted compliance-checking power. The Commissioner or an authorised officer may cause a person to make a purchase from the business premises of a taxable person to check whether the taxpayer issues the required: tax invoice; or bill of supply. Severity Low This is ordinarily not an investigation into the entire business. Its purpose is limited to verifying invoice-compliance behaviour during an actual transaction. What Can the Officer Do? The Department may cause a test purchase to be made without giving advance warning. Where goods purchased for the test are subsequently returned, the amount paid is required to be refunded after cancellation of the invoice or bill in the manner contemplated by Section 67(12). Possible Consequence If proper invoice requirements are being followed, ordinarily no adverse consequence arises from the test itself. If non-compliance is detected, the Department may take appropriate action under the relevant GST provisions. 9. Does Every GST Visit Require Prior Notice? No. Prior notice depends upon the nature of the proceeding. Proceeding Prior Notice Severity Rule 25 Verification Not necessarily Low–Moderate Section 65 Audit Minimum 15 working days Moderate Section 71 Access No specific advance-notice requirement in Section 71 Moderate Section 67(1) Inspection Advance notice ordinarily not contemplated High Section 67(2) Search Advance notice ordinarily not contemplated Very High Section 67(12) Test Purchase No advance notice contemplated Low Accordingly, a visit cannot be regarded as invalid merely because the Department did not give advance notice. The more important question is: Does the officer possess the statutory authority required for the particular action being undertaken? Conclusion The mere presence of GST officers at the business premises does not by itself indicate that the taxpayer is facing a search or serious tax-evasion investigation. The legal position depends upon the statutory provision being exercised. In simple terms: Rule 25 – Verification of the existence and genuineness of business premises. Section 65 – Formal departmental audit of GST compliance. Section 71 – Access to business premises for audit, scrutiny, verification and revenue checks. Section 67(1) – Inspection based upon reasons to believe that specified tax-evasion circumstances exist. Section 67(2) – Search and seizure where relevant goods or material are believed to be secreted in any place. Section 67(12) – Limited test purchase to verify invoice compliance. The crucial practical point is that each provision has its own threshold, purpose and permissible action. A physical verification cannot automatically become an audit, an audit cannot automatically become a search, and Section 71 access should not be used as a substitute for the more stringent requirements applicable to Section 67. Therefore, the seriousness of a GST officer’s visit should be assessed not merely by the fact that officers have arrived at the premises, but by: the provision invoked → the authority possessed → the action undertaken → and the consequences that can legally follow. —- For any query, clarification, or detailed professional consultation in relation to Income Tax or GST matters — particularly notices, assessments, litigation, legal proceedings, or tax demands — you may get in touch with us at Mobile: +91-9818640458 Email: [[email protected]] Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: CA VARUN GUPTA Qualification: CA in Practice Company: VARUN AMITA GUPTA & CO. Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 97 View full profile → More from CA VARUN GUPTA GST Registration Cancellation: Reasons, Procedure, Retrospective Impact & Compliance September 10, 2026 Suspension of GST Registration: Causes, Effects and Compliance Requirements September 4, 2026 GST Notices on Rise: Key Issues on ITC, Turnover, RCM and E-Way Bills September 1, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Notebook GST Exemption Squeezes Indian MSMEs Amid Cheap ASEAN Imports September 10, 2026 Rajasthan HC Restores Delayed GST Appeal, Directs Decision on Merits September 9, 2026 GSTAT Directs JC Appeals to Verify GST Documents and Pass Reasoned Order September 9, 2026 Madras High Court Quashes GST Penalty After Late Fee Was Imposed September 9, 2026 Rule 43 Duty Scrip Exclusion Prospective; Section 74 Fails Without Suppression – GSTAT September 9, 2026 GSTAT Stays Recovery Pending Appeal After Taxpayer Discharges Full GST Liability September 9, 2026