Summary Director KYC Compliance is the process through which individuals holding a Director Identification Number (DIN) verify and update their personal, identity, residential, mobile, and email details with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA). The supplied content explains DIR-3 KYC, its objectives, applicability to active DIN holders and directors of different types of companies, requirements for foreign directors, available filing methods, documents, filing procedure, consequences of non-compliance, best practices and frequently asked questions. DIR-3 KYC e-Form is described as the applicable mechanism for first-time filing or where existing details require updating, while the DIR-3 KYC Web Service is described as the simplified mechanism for directors who have previously completed KYC and have no changes in their registered details. The compliance process involves checking DIN status, preparing identity and address proofs, maintaining a valid Digital Signature Certificate, verifying registered mobile number and email ID through OTP authentication, and submitting the required form with applicable certification. The supplied content further explains that failure to complete KYC within the prescribed timeline may result in DIN deactivation, additional filing fees and difficulties in undertaking corporate compliance activities. It also emphasises maintaining a compliance calendar and regularly checking registered contact details and DSC validity. The FAQs cover the meaning and applicability of DIR-3 KYC, due date, distinction between DIR-3 KYC and DIR-3 KYC Web, consequences of non-filing, delayed filing fee, annual compliance, DSC and professional certification requirements, and procedures for changing mobile number or email ID. Table of Contents▸ Introduction What is Director KYC Compliance? What is DIR-3 KYC? Objective Behind Introducing DIR-3 KYC Maintaining Accurate Director Records Preventing Misuse of DIN Improving Corporate Transparency Who Needs to File DIR-3 KYC? Individuals Holding Active DIN Directors of Different Types of Companies Foreign Directors Holding DIN Types of DIR-3 KYC Filing DIR-3 KYC e-Form DIR-3 KYC Web Service Documents Required for DIR-3 KYC Identity Proof Documents Address Proof Documents Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Registered Mobile Number and Email ID Process for Filing DIR-3 KYC Step 1: Check DIN Status Step 2: Prepare Required Documents Step 3: Fill DIR-3 KYC Form Step 4: Complete OTP Verification Step 5: Submit Form with DSC Certification Consequences of Non-Filing of DIR-3 KYC DIN Deactivation Additional Fees for Delayed Filing Difficulty in Corporate Compliance Activities Best Practices for Maintaining Director KYC Compliance Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Q1. What is DIR-3 KYC? Q2. Who is required to complete DIR-3 KYC? Q3. What is the due date for DIR-3 KYC? Q4. What is the difference between DIR-3 KYC and DIR-3 KYC Web? Q5. What happens if DIR-3 KYC is not completed on time? Q6. What is the fee for delayed DIR-3 KYC filing? Q7. Is DIR-3 KYC required every year? Q8. Is a Digital Signature Certificate required for DIR-3 KYC? Q9. Is professional certification required for DIR-3 KYC? Q10. Can a director change their mobile number or email ID through DIR-3 KYC Web? Show all 42 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Director KYC Compliance is an important regulatory requirement introduced by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) to maintain accurate and updated information of individuals holding a Director Identification Number (DIN). Since directors are responsible for managing and supervising company operations, maintaining verified records of their identity and contact details helps improve corporate transparency and prevents misuse of DINs. Through the DIR-3 KYC process, directors confirm their personal details such as name, address, mobile number, email ID, and identity information with the MCA database. This annual compliance ensures that only genuine and active directors continue to remain associated with companies. Non-compliance with Director KYC requirements can result in DIN deactivation, additional filing fees, and restrictions on carrying out director-related activities. Therefore, understanding the complete process, documents, timelines, and consequences of non-filing is essential for every DIN holder. What is Director KYC Compliance? Director KYC Compliance refers to the annual verification process through which individuals holding a Director Identification Number (DIN) confirm and update their personal details with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. The purpose of this compliance is to ensure that MCA records contain accurate information about every person associated with companies as a director. The compliance requirement was introduced to strengthen corporate governance and improve accountability among directors. By verifying director details regularly, the MCA can identify inactive, incorrect, or suspicious DIN records and maintain a reliable database of company officials. Director KYC is applicable even when a director is not actively involved in daily business operations because the DIN remains linked with their identity in MCA records. Completing this compliance on time helps directors maintain an active DIN status and avoid unnecessary regulatory issues. For related information, see DIN Compliance Guide: Sections 153–159, DIR-3 KYC, DIR-6 & MCA Amendments 2026. What is DIR-3 KYC? DIR-3 KYC is an electronic form prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs for verification of directors’ details. It is filed by individuals who have been allotted a DIN to confirm their identity, residential address, email ID, and mobile number. The form was introduced to ensure that the MCA database contains updated information about directors and that DINs are not misused by unauthorized individuals. Through DIR-3 KYC, the government ensures better monitoring of companies and individuals associated with corporate entities. The filing requires verification through OTP authentication and digital signatures. Depending on whether there is any change in the director’s details, the compliance can be completed either through the DIR-3 KYC e-form or the DIR-3 KYC Web Service. For related guidance, see DIR-3 KYC Compliance for Directors – When and how to file and MCA notifies revised form DIR-3-KYC & DIR-3-KYC-WEB. Objective Behind Introducing DIR-3 KYC Maintaining Accurate Director Records One of the main objectives of DIR-3 KYC is to maintain updated and reliable information about all directors registered with MCA. Earlier, many DIN holders had outdated contact details or incorrect information, making communication difficult. Through annual verification, MCA ensures that the details available in its database are accurate and updated. This helps regulatory authorities communicate important compliance-related information directly to responsible individuals. Preventing Misuse of DIN DIN is a unique identification number allotted to individuals who wish to become directors of companies. Since DIN represents an individual’s identity in the corporate system, misuse of inactive or fake DINs can create compliance risks. The DIR-3 KYC mechanism helps MCA identify inactive DINs and remove unreliable records from the system. This creates greater transparency and reduces chances of fraudulent activities. For a broader discussion of DIN provisions, see DIN Compliance Guide: Sections 153–159, DIR-3 KYC, DIR-6 & MCA Amendments 2026. Improving Corporate Transparency A company’s directors are responsible for important decisions, financial management, and statutory compliance. Maintaining verified director information improves confidence among stakeholders, investors, and regulatory authorities. Regular KYC verification ensures that companies have genuine individuals associated with management positions and strengthens the overall corporate governance framework. Who Needs to File DIR-3 KYC? Individuals Holding Active DIN Every individual who has been allotted a DIN and whose DIN status is active is required to complete annual KYC compliance. This applies irrespective of whether the person is currently appointed as a director in a company or not. Even if a person has obtained a DIN but is not associated with any company at present, the annual KYC requirement continues until the DIN remains active. Directors of Different Types of Companies DIR-3 KYC applies to directors associated with various types of companies, including private companies, public companies, and Section 8 companies. Whether a person acts as an executive director, independent director, or nominee director, compliance with annual KYC requirements is necessary to maintain an active DIN status. Foreign Directors Holding DIN Foreign nationals who have obtained DIN in India are also required to comply with Director KYC requirements. They must provide valid identity and address proof documents as applicable. The purpose remains the same ensuring that MCA has verified and updated information about every individual associated with Indian companies. For related information, see DIR-3 KYC Filing for Foreign Directors in India. Types of DIR-3 KYC Filing DIR-3 KYC e-Form The DIR-3 KYC e-form is used when a director is filing KYC for the first time or when there is any change in existing details. For example, if a director changes their mobile number, email address, residential address, or any other registered information, the updated details must be submitted through this form. The form requires digital signature authentication and certification by a practicing professional such as a Chartered Accountant, Company Secretary, or Cost Accountant. For related information on the prescribed forms, see MCA notifies revised form DIR-3-KYC & DIR-3-KYC-WEB. DIR-3 KYC Web Service DIR-3 KYC Web Service is a simplified method available for directors who have already completed KYC earlier and do not have any changes in their registered details. Under this process, directors only need to verify their existing information through OTP authentication on their registered mobile number and email ID. This facility reduces the compliance burden by allowing quick annual confirmation without filing a complete e-form. Documents Required for DIR-3 KYC Identity Proof Documents Identity verification is an important part of Director KYC. Indian directors generally provide documents such as PAN Card and Aadhaar Card for authentication. For foreign directors, passport details are required as proof of identity. The information provided should match government records to avoid rejection or resubmission. Address Proof Documents Directors are required to provide valid proof of residential address to confirm their current location details. Documents such as Aadhaar Card, passport, driving licence, voter identity card, or utility bills may be used depending on applicable requirements. The documents should clearly mention the individual’s name and address. Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) Since MCA filings are completed electronically, the director must have an active Digital Signature Certificate. The DSC is used to authenticate the filing and confirm that the form is submitted by the concerned individual. An expired or unregistered DSC can delay the filing process and may require renewal before submission. For related information, see MCA Advisory: Fix ‘DSC Not Registered with DIN’ Error in DIR-3 KYC. Registered Mobile Number and Email ID A personal mobile number and email ID are mandatory for DIR-3 KYC compliance. MCA verifies these details through OTP authentication. Directors should ensure that they have access to the registered contact details because failure of OTP verification can prevent successful completion of KYC. Process for Filing DIR-3 KYC Step 1: Check DIN Status Before filing DIR-3 KYC, the director should verify whether the DIN status is active or inactive on the MCA portal. If the DIN is already deactivated due to non-compliance, additional steps may be required for reactivation. Step 2: Prepare Required Documents The director should keep all necessary documents ready, including identity proof, address proof, DSC, mobile number, and email ID. Proper preparation helps avoid delays and ensures smooth completion of the filing process. Step 3: Fill DIR-3 KYC Form The required details such as personal information, address details, and contact information must be entered carefully. All information should match official records because discrepancies may lead to rejection or resubmission. Step 4: Complete OTP Verification MCA verifies the registered mobile number and email ID through OTP authentication. Successful OTP verification confirms that the contact details belong to the concerned director. Step 5: Submit Form with DSC Certification After completing all details, the form must be digitally signed and submitted on the MCA portal. For DIR-3 KYC e-form filing, certification by a practicing professional is required to confirm the accuracy of submitted information. For additional procedural guidance, see DIR-3 KYC Compliance for Directors – When and how to file. Consequences of Non-Filing of DIR-3 KYC DIN Deactivation If a director fails to complete KYC within the prescribed timeline, MCA may deactivate the DIN status. A deactivated DIN can restrict the individual from performing director-related activities and filing company forms. For related information, see DIR-3 KYC: What Changed from 31 March 2026, Who Files When & Trap to Avoid. Additional Fees for Delayed Filing Directors who fail to complete KYC within the due date may need to pay additional fees while filing the pending compliance. This additional cost can be avoided by completing annual KYC within the prescribed timeline. Difficulty in Corporate Compliance Activities An inactive DIN can create problems during company compliance activities such as appointment of directors, filing statutory forms, and other MCA-related submissions. Therefore, timely DIR-3 KYC compliance is essential for uninterrupted corporate operations. Best Practices for Maintaining Director KYC Compliance Companies and directors should maintain a proper compliance calendar to track annual KYC deadlines. Directors should regularly verify whether their registered email ID, mobile number, address, and DSC are active. Companies should also coordinate with directors before the due date to ensure that all required compliances are completed on time. A proactive approach reduces the risk of penalties and unnecessary regulatory complications. Conclusion Director KYC Compliance through DIR-3 KYC is an important annual requirement for maintaining transparency, accountability, and accuracy in India’s corporate regulatory framework. It helps the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) keep updated and verified information of individuals holding a Director Identification Number (DIN). Timely compliance ensures that directors’ personal and contact details remain current in official records and reduces the risk of DIN deactivation, additional fees, or interruptions in company-related filings and statutory activities. By completing DIR-3 KYC within the prescribed timeline, directors can maintain an active DIN status and participate smoothly in corporate compliance and governance activities. Regular monitoring of KYC requirements also helps companies strengthen internal compliance practices and maintain regulatory credibility. For professional assistance with DIR-3 KYC filing, DIN-related compliance, and other MCA services, you can connect with Compliance Calendar LLP at [[email protected]](mailto:[email protected]) or call 9988424211 for reliable compliance support and guidance. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Q1. What is DIR-3 KYC? Ans. DIR-3 KYC is an annual compliance requirement for individuals holding a Director Identification Number (DIN). It is used to verify and maintain updated personal and contact details of DIN holders in the records of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA). Q2. Who is required to complete DIR-3 KYC? Ans. Individuals who fall within the prescribed DIR-3 KYC requirements and hold a DIN are required to complete the applicable KYC process. The obligation should be checked based on the DIN status, date of allotment, and the prevailing MCA rules for the relevant financial year. Q3. What is the due date for DIR-3 KYC? Ans. Under the generally applicable framework, eligible DIN holders are required to complete their annual KYC on or before 30 September of the immediately next financial year. Directors should nevertheless check the latest MCA notification or circular because the government may extend or modify compliance timelines. Q4. What is the difference between DIR-3 KYC and DIR-3 KYC Web? Ans. DIR-3 KYC is generally used for first-time KYC filing and in cases where the prescribed details need to be provided or updated through the e-form. DIR-3 KYC Web is intended for eligible DIN holders who have already filed KYC earlier and need to verify their existing mobile number and email ID for the subsequent year without changes. Q5. What happens if DIR-3 KYC is not completed on time? Ans. If the applicable KYC requirement is not completed within the prescribed period, the DIN may be marked as “Deactivated due to non-filing of DIR-3 KYC.” This can prevent the DIN holder from conveniently carrying out activities that require an active DIN until the KYC default is regularised. Q6. What is the fee for delayed DIR-3 KYC filing? Ans. Where KYC is completed after the prescribed due date and the DIN has been deactivated for non-filing, the applicable filing fee for regularisation is generally ₹5,000, subject to the prevailing MCA fee rules. Timely filing therefore helps directors avoid an unnecessary compliance cost. Q7. Is DIR-3 KYC required every year? Ans. Yes, Director KYC is an annual compliance requirement for DIN holders covered by the applicable rules. After completing the detailed KYC filing, eligible directors may generally use the DIR-3 KYC Web service in subsequent years if their relevant details remain unchanged. Q8. Is a Digital Signature Certificate required for DIR-3 KYC? Ans. A valid Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) is required when filing the DIR-3 KYC e-form. The director digitally signs the form to authenticate the information submitted. Directors should therefore ensure that their DSC is valid and properly associated with their MCA profile before starting the filing process. Q9. Is professional certification required for DIR-3 KYC? Ans. The DIR-3 KYC e-form requires certification by an eligible professional in practice, such as a Chartered Accountant, Company Secretary, or Cost Accountant. The professional verifies the particulars and supporting documents before certifying the form. Q10. Can a director change their mobile number or email ID through DIR-3 KYC Web? Ans. DIR-3 KYC Web is primarily meant for annual verification of existing contact details. Where the director needs to change the registered mobile number or email ID, the applicable DIR-3 KYC filing procedure for updating those details should be followed rather than simply confirming the old information through the web service. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013DINDIR-3 KYC Author Info Name: Compliance Calendar LLP Qualification: Graduate Company: Compliance Calendar LLP Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 66 View full profile → More from Compliance Calendar LLP MCA Annual Filing: AOC-4 and MGT-7 Compliance Guide September 10, 2026 Private Limited Company Annual Compliance Checklist and Key Requirements September 10, 2026 Presumptive Taxation under Section 44AD: Eligibility, Turnover Limit & Tax Rates September 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law Audit Trail Compliance under Rule 3(1) and Rule 11(g): A Practitioner’s Guide September 11, 2026 MCA Annual Filing: AOC-4 and MGT-7 Compliance Guide September 10, 2026 Private Limited Company Annual Compliance Checklist and Key Requirements September 10, 2026 AGM Extension for FY 2025-26: Section 96 & GNL-1 Guide September 10, 2026 NCLAT Upholds NCLT Jurisdiction Over Interim Oppression Proceedings in Exclusive Capital Dispute September 9, 2026 NCLT Mumbai Dispenses Stakeholder Meetings for Tata Motors Group Amalgamation Scheme September 8, 2026