Consequences of an Unstamped or Under-Stamped Form SH-4 – Impounding, Penalty, and Can the Company Still Register the Transfer? Brief: A company cannot register a physical share transfer on the strength of an unstamped or insufficiently stamped Form SH-4. Section 56(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 requires a duly stamped transfer instrument. The Indian Stamp Act, 1899 provides for impounding in specified circumstances and for payment of deficient duty and, where applicable, a penalty before the instrument can be acted upon. The amount and procedure depend on whether the instrument is presented for admission in evidence or dealt with by the Collector. A Collector’s endorsement can cure the stamping defect, but it does not automatically resolve a separate failure to deliver Form SH-4 to the company within the 60-day period under Section 56(1). Table of Contents▸ Short Answer Applicable Legal Provisions What Makes Form SH-4 Not Duly Stamped? When Must the Instrument Be Impounded? Duty, Penalty and Endorsement Can the Company Register the Transfer After the Stamp Defect Is Cured? Example Practical Steps FAQs 1. Can the transferee simply pay the shortfall and ask the company to accept the old SH-4? 2. Can an old unstamped SH-4 still be dealt with? 3. Is a transfer already registered on an unstamped SH-4 automatically void? Conclusion Show all 13 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Short Answer No. A company should not register a physical share transfer while Form SH-4 remains unstamped or under-stamped. Section 56(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 requires a proper instrument that is duly stamped, dated and executed. An instrument that is not duly stamped may be impounded when produced before a person covered by Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. The stamping defect can be addressed through the applicable statutory procedure, followed by an endorsement under Section 42. Before registering the transfer, the company must also check the other requirements of Section 56, particularly delivery of the instrument within 60 days of execution. Applicable Legal Provisions Companies Act, 2013, Section 56(1), read with Rule 11 of the Companies (Share Capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014: A physical transfer requires an instrument in Form SH-4 that is duly stamped, dated and executed. Ordinarily, it must be delivered to the company within 60 days of execution, together with the share certificate or, where applicable, the letter of allotment. Indian Stamp Act, 1899, Sections 12 and 17: These address cancellation of adhesive stamps and the time for stamping an instrument executed in India. Section 33: A person who falls within the provision and finds an instrument apparently not duly stamped when it is produced before them must impound it. Section 35: Subject to its provisos, an instrument that is not duly stamped cannot be admitted in evidence or acted upon, registered or authenticated by the persons specified in that section. Its proviso prescribes payment of duty or deficient duty and a statutory penalty for admission in evidence. Sections 38 and 40: These govern the handling of an impounded instrument and the Collector’s determination of duty and penalty. Section 41: This offers a limited discretionary route for an instrument stamped insufficiently because of accident, mistake or urgent necessity, subject to the conditions and time limit in that section. Section 42: The required endorsement following payment gives the instrument the effect specified in that section. Sections 43 and 62: Payment of a stamp penalty does not necessarily bar prosecution for an applicable stamp-law offence. Criminal liability must be assessed against the particular facts and the applicable statutory provision. What Makes Form SH-4 Not Duly Stamped? Form SH-4 may be defective if no duty was paid, the duty paid was insufficient, or adhesive stamps requiring cancellation were not properly cancelled. For a chargeable physical transfer of shares, the applicable rate is generally 0.015% under the securities stamp-duty framework. The duty base and the method of payment should be checked for the particular transaction; the calculation should not automatically be described as 0.015% of the stated consideration in every case. Section 17 ordinarily requires an instrument executed in India to be stamped before or at execution. Merely placing additional stamps on an already executed Form SH-4 should not be assumed to cure an earlier deficiency. The parties should use the procedure available under the applicable stamp law and retain the resulting order or endorsement. When Must the Instrument Be Impounded? Section 33 applies when an instrument chargeable with duty is produced before a person authorised by law or by the parties to receive evidence, or before a person in charge of a public office covered by that section, and appears not to be duly stamped. It does not mean that every company officer or statutory auditor who discovers a defective SH-4 automatically has a duty to impound it. Whether a particular person must impound the instrument depends on their legal capacity and the circumstances in which it is produced. Once an instrument is impounded, Section 38 governs whether it is sent to the Collector or handled in the manner specified there. The company should obtain advice on the appropriate procedure rather than treating internal discovery during an audit as an automatic referral by the auditor. Duty, Penalty and Endorsement The draft distinction between Sections 35 and 40 matters. Where an instrument is admitted in evidence under the proviso to Section 35, the provision specifies payment of the duty or deficiency together with a penalty of ₹5, or, where ten times the duty or deficiency exceeds ₹5, a sum equal to ten times that amount. This is not a general discretion to impose any penalty up to ten times the deficiency. Where the Collector deals with an impounded instrument under Section 40, the penalty provision operates differently: the Collector may require the duty or deficiency and a penalty of ₹5 or, if considered appropriate, an amount not exceeding ten times the duty or deficiency. The amount should therefore be stated by reference to the procedure actually followed. Section 41 should not be presented as a general concession for every old, accidental omission. It is a conditional power concerning an instrument that was insufficiently stamped because of accident, mistake or urgent necessity. Its statutory time limit must be checked; an SH-4 executed several years earlier cannot simply be assumed to qualify. Following payment under the applicable provision, the endorsement contemplated by Section 42 allows the instrument to be admitted in evidence and acted upon as specified there. The company should retain the endorsed instrument and supporting payment records with its transfer documents. Can the Company Register the Transfer After the Stamp Defect Is Cured? Curing the stamp defect removes one obstacle; it does not dispense with Section 56(1). The company must verify execution by the transferor and transferee, the accompanying certificate or letter of allotment, any restrictions in its articles, and delivery of Form SH-4 within 60 days of execution. This timing issue is especially important for an old SH-4 found in company records. If it was delivered within 60 days but registered despite deficient stamping, the company should obtain advice on curing the instrument and correcting or confirming its records. If it was not delivered within 60 days, a later stamp endorsement does not, by itself, make the original delivery timely. The available course must be assessed on the facts and the proviso to Section 56(1); it should not be described as automatic Board ratification. Stage Practical position Relevant provision SH-4 is found unstamped or under-stamped Identify the correct duty, how and when the form was executed, and whether it was delivered to the company on time. Stamp Act, Sections 12 and 17; Companies Act, Section 56(1) Instrument is produced before a person covered by the impounding provision It must be impounded if it appears not to be duly stamped. Stamp Act, Section 33 Stamping defect is addressed Pay the duty or deficiency and any applicable penalty through the relevant statutory procedure; obtain the endorsement. Stamp Act, Sections 35, 38, 40–42 Company considers registration Verify all Section 56 requirements. A cured stamp defect alone does not cure late delivery or another defect in the transfer. Companies Act, Section 56(1); Rule 11 Example Assume a physical share transfer was chargeable to duty on a value of ₹20,00,000 at 0.015%, and no duty was paid. The duty would be ₹300 (₹20,00,000 × 0.015%). If the Collector deals with the impounded instrument under Section 40, the penalty must be determined under that provision; its upper limit on these assumed figures is ₹3,000, in addition to the ₹300 duty. If the instrument is instead admitted in evidence through Section 35’s proviso, that provision’s penalty formula must be applied. These figures illustrate the stamping issue only. The company must separately establish whether Form SH-4 was delivered within the period required by Section 56(1). Practical Steps Preserve the original SH-4, share certificate, transfer correspondence, Board records and proof of when the company received the instrument. Check the applicable duty and identify precisely whether the problem is non-payment, a short payment, or improper cancellation of adhesive stamps. Use the appropriate statutory route to address the defect and obtain the required endorsement. Do not assume that adding stamps privately after execution is sufficient. Review the 60-day delivery requirement and all other conditions of Section 56 before making or regularising an entry in the register of members. FAQs 1. Can the transferee simply pay the shortfall and ask the company to accept the old SH-4? Payment alone should not be treated as a complete cure of an already executed, insufficiently stamped instrument. The parties should follow the applicable statutory procedure and obtain the relevant endorsement or determination before the company relies on it. 2. Can an old unstamped SH-4 still be dealt with? Its age does not remove the stamping problem, but the available procedure and any time limits must be checked. In particular, the limited relief under Section 41 should not be assumed to apply to an instrument executed years earlier. The separate 60-day delivery requirement under Section 56 may also be decisive. 3. Is a transfer already registered on an unstamped SH-4 automatically void? That conclusion should not be drawn without examining the documents and circumstances. The registration is exposed to challenge because the statutory requirement of a duly stamped instrument was not met. The company should obtain advice on curing the stamp defect and on any separate defect under Section 56 before deciding how its register should be corrected. Conclusion An unstamped or under-stamped Form SH-4 should not be used as the basis for registering a physical share transfer. The duty, applicable penalty and endorsement must be addressed under the relevant provisions of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. The company must then independently verify compliance with Section 56(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, especially timely delivery of the instrument. Early review of the transfer papers is the most practical way to avoid a stamp defect becoming a wider title and company-records dispute. Author: CS Divesh Goyal, GOYAL DIVESH & ASSOCIATES, Company Secretary in Practice, Delhi. Email: [email protected]. Disclaimer: This article provides general information based on the law applicable to the facts described. Stamp-law procedures and any applicable State amendments should be checked for the transaction concerned. Readers should obtain professional advice before acting on an old or disputed share transfer. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013Indian stamp act 1899stamp duty Author Info Name: CS Divesh Goyal Qualification: CS Company: Goyal Divesh & Associates Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 762 View full profile → More from CS Divesh Goyal Partnership Firm Cannot Subscribe to Company MOA Except Section 8 Company September 25, 2026 Can a Company Use Private Placement Money Before Filing PAS-3? September 25, 2026 Can a Company Make Two Private Placement Offers Simultaneously under Section 42(5)? September 25, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law MCA Cautions Public Against High-Return Promises by Non-Compliant Nidhi Companies September 24, 2026 ICAI Announces CA Foundation and Intermediate January 2027 Examination Schedule September 24, 2026 Mudra Denim Ordered Into Liquidation After 99.89% CoC Approval: NCLT Mumbai September 24, 2026 Can a Board Meeting and General Meeting Be Held on the Same Day? September 24, 2026 Managing Director Criminal Liability Depends on Statutory & Personal Involvement September 23, 2026 MCA Extends Tenure of Eight NCLAT Members for Five Years September 23, 2026