Summary: Section 22 of the Customs Act, 1962 provides proportionate abatement of customs duty where imported goods are damaged or deteriorated in specified circumstances before clearance for home consumption. Relief depends not merely on a commercial fall in value but on establishing the statutory conditions to the satisfaction of the competent customs authority, including when and how the damage occurred and the resulting reduction in value. Section 22(2) proportionately reduces duty according to the relationship between the value of the damaged goods and their value before damage, while Section 22(3) provides the mechanism for determining that reduced value. Judicial decisions including All India Glass Manufacturers’ Federation, Udayani Ship Breakers and Wavin India demonstrate the importance of timely claims, contemporaneous evidence and customs valuation, and show why subsequent compensation from a foreign supplier does not by itself establish entitlement to abatement. Section 22 must also be distinguished from Section 23, which deals with remission where imported goods are lost or destroyed, and from the separate treatment of pilferage. Importers should therefore document damage immediately, notify Customs at the appropriate stage, preserve survey and valuation evidence, and invoke the statutory mechanism before assuming that commercial loss automatically reduces customs duty. Abatement of Customs Duty: Legal Relief and Its Practical Application Table of Contents▸ Part I – Introduction Part II – Legal Framework Section 22 of the Customs Act, 1962 Proportionate reduction in duty Determination of value Judicial interpretation Part III – Contemporary and Practical Analysis Abatement is not remission Customs duty and the GST interface Part IV – Critical Discussion Part V – Conclusion and Suggestions References Show all 12 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Part I – Introduction International trade involves commercial risks that do not end when goods leave the exporter’s premises. Imported goods may be damaged during transit, unloading or storage before they are cleared for home consumption. The problem becomes particularly significant where customs duty has to be paid on goods whose value has already diminished because of damage or deterioration. This raises a practical question: should an importer be required to bear customs duty on the value of goods that no longer retain their original condition? The Customs Act, 1962 recognises this situation through Section 22, which provides for abatement of duty on damaged or deteriorated goods. The provision does not grant a general exemption merely because an imported consignment has suffered a fall in value. Instead, it creates a specific statutory mechanism under which duty may be reduced in proportion to the reduction in value, subject to prescribed conditions. (India Code) The issue is particularly relevant for businesses dealing with machinery, chemicals, agricultural commodities, electronics, food products and other goods susceptible to physical damage or deterioration during international transportation. For such importers, the difference between establishing a valid Section 22 claim and merely receiving compensation from a foreign supplier can have substantial financial consequences. The relationship with the post-GST customs framework also deserves attention. Imported goods may attract Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST), which is levied and collected through Section 3 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975, with the import valuation linked to the customs framework. The Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 itself recognises this mechanism for imported goods. (India Code) Thus, while the statutory source of the abatement discussed in this article is the Customs Act, its practical implications arise within the wider indirect-tax framework governing imports. The central issue, therefore, is not merely whether goods have suffered damage, but whether the damage falls within Section 22, whether it occurred at the legally relevant stage, and whether the importer can satisfactorily establish the consequent reduction in value. Part II – Legal Framework Section 22 of the Customs Act, 1962 Section 22 provides for abatement of duty where imported goods have been damaged or have deteriorated in specified circumstances. The provision applies where the prescribed facts are shown to the satisfaction of the Assistant Commissioner of Customs or Deputy Commissioner of Customs. There are three situations contemplated by Section 22(1). First, abatement is available where imported goods have been damaged or deteriorated at any time before or during unloading in India. Second, in the case of imported goods other than warehoused goods, abatement may be available where the goods are damaged after unloading but before examination under Section 17, provided the damage resulted from an accident and was not caused by any wilful act, negligence or default of the importer, his employee or agent. Third, where goods are warehoused, abatement may be available if they are damaged before clearance for home consumption, again on account of an accident not attributable to any wilful act, negligence or default of the owner, employee or agent. (India Code) The distinction between these stages is important. Section 22 does not create an unrestricted right to reassess goods whenever their commercial value subsequently declines. Proportionate reduction in duty Section 22(2) provides the basic mechanism for calculating the reduced duty. The duty payable on the damaged or deteriorated goods bears the same proportion to the duty chargeable before the damage as the value of the damaged goods bears to their value before the damage. In simplified form: Duty after abatement = Duty before damage × Value after damage ÷ Value before damage For example, assume that imported machinery had a value of ₹20 lakh before damage and the duty chargeable on that value was ₹4 lakh. If the value of the machinery after the qualifying damage is determined to be ₹14 lakh, the duty would be proportionately calculated as: ₹4 lakh × ₹14 lakh ÷ ₹20 lakh = ₹2.8 lakh The corresponding reduction would therefore be ₹1.2 lakh. The example illustrates the statutory principle; the actual assessment depends upon the value accepted by the proper officer. Determination of value Section 22(3) provides two methods for determining the value of damaged or deteriorated goods. At the option of the owner, the value may be ascertained by the proper officer. Alternatively, the goods may be sold by the proper officer by public auction or tender, or, with the consent of the owner, in another manner. The gross sale proceeds are then deemed to be the value of the damaged or deteriorated goods. (India Code) Consequently, an importer cannot ordinarily determine the percentage of damage unilaterally and demand a corresponding reduction in duty. The statutory valuation mechanism remains central to the claim. Judicial interpretation The Supreme Court’s decision in All India Glass Manufacturers’ Federation v. Collector of Customs, Bombay, 1991 (55) E.L.T. 5 (S.C.), remains important in understanding the limits of Section 22. In that case, imported soda ash was alleged to be sub-standard. After the goods had been cleared, the foreign supplier compensated the importer through a credit note. The importer subsequently sought refund of customs duty on the ground that the compensation represented a reduction in the actual value of the goods. The Supreme Court rejected the claim. It emphasised that where goods have been assessed on the invoice value and cleared, a subsequent payment of compensation by the seller does not, by itself, establish that the goods had a lower value for customs purposes. The Court stressed that the importer must establish, to the satisfaction of the proper officer, that the goods were damaged or deteriorated in circumstances covered by Section 22. (Indian Kanoon) The decision is particularly relevant because it distinguishes compensation for breach of warranty from abatement of customs duty. A commercial settlement between an importer and its foreign supplier does not automatically alter the customs assessment. The Supreme Court subsequently considered the statutory requirements in M/s Udayani Ship Breakers Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs & Central Excise, Rajkot (2006). The Court reiterated that the party claiming abatement has to establish before the competent customs authority that the conditions of Section 22 are satisfied. The decision also emphasises the importance of making a claim before the assessing authority rather than attempting to obtain the benefit retrospectively without having invoked the statutory mechanism. (Indian Kanoon) The decision in Wavin India Ltd. v. Collector of Customs illustrates another aspect of the provision. There, the goods had suffered contamination and the customs authorities ultimately accepted a 30% reduction in value after considering the circumstances and laboratory evidence. The Tribunal upheld the corresponding relief under Section 22. (Indian Kanoon) These decisions demonstrate that Section 22 operates on evidence of actual damage and its impact on value, rather than on a mere assertion by the importer. Part III – Contemporary and Practical Analysis Consider an importer who brings a consignment of specialised industrial components into India. The goods are unloaded at an Indian port, but before customs examination, a portion of the consignment is damaged in an accidental incident. The importer originally declared the goods at ₹50 lakh. The portion affected by the accident had an original value of ₹10 lakh. After the damage, the value of that portion is determined at ₹6 lakh. Assume the duty attributable to the affected goods before damage was ₹2 lakh. If the requirements of Section 22 are established, the duty attributable to the damaged portion would be: ₹2 lakh × ₹6 lakh ÷ ₹10 lakh = ₹1.2 lakh The importer would therefore obtain an effective abatement of ₹80,000 on that portion. But the calculation is the easiest part of the exercise. The more difficult issue is proving that the statutory requirements have been met. In practice, an importer should establish: 1. When the damage occurred; 2. Where the damage occurred; 3. The nature and extent of the damage; 4. Whether the damage resulted from an accident where the statute requires an accident; 5. That the damage was not caused by the importer’s wilful act, negligence or default where such condition applies; and 6. The value of the goods before and after the damage. This is where contemporaneous documentation becomes critical. Photographs of damaged packages, survey reports, port records, shipping documents, inspection reports, correspondence with the carrier, insurance documentation and valuation material may all become relevant depending on the circumstances. The timing of the claim is equally important. The Supreme Court’s reasoning in All India Glass Manufacturers’ Federation shows the difficulty of establishing a Section 22 claim after goods have already been cleared and the customs authorities have not had an opportunity to examine the alleged damage. (Indian Kanoon) Abatement is not remission A common source of confusion is the distinction between abatement under Section 22 and remission under Section 23. Section 22 addresses goods that remain available but have suffered damage or deterioration, resulting in a reduction in their value. Section 23, by contrast, concerns goods that have been lost or destroyed before clearance for home consumption, subject to the statutory conditions. The two provisions therefore respond to different factual situations. The distinction becomes particularly relevant when goods are partially damaged, completely destroyed, or otherwise unavailable for clearance. The importer must identify the precise nature of the event before determining the appropriate statutory relief. Similarly, pilferage should not simply be treated as damage under Section 22. The Customs Act contains a separate statutory framework dealing with pilfered goods, and Section 23 itself distinguishes loss otherwise than by pilferage. Customs duty and the GST interface The post-GST regime makes the distinction between customs duty and import IGST particularly important. Basic customs duty continues to operate under the Customs Act and the Customs Tariff Act. IGST on imported goods, however, is levied and collected under the customs mechanism provided in Section 3 of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975. Section 5 of the IGST Act specifically recognises this mechanism. (India Code) Accordingly, a discussion of Section 22 should not inaccurately describe the provision as a “GST abatement.” The statutory relief originates in the Customs Act. Nevertheless, because customs valuation and the import-tax mechanism are interconnected, the treatment of damaged goods can have consequences for the overall tax incidence at the time of import. For businesses, this makes accurate assessment at the import stage particularly important. Part IV – Critical Discussion The principal difficulty with Section 22 is not the mathematical formula but the evidentiary and procedural threshold. The statutory expression that the relevant facts must be shown “to the satisfaction” of the competent customs authority gives the authority an important role in determining whether the conditions have been met. This is understandable from a revenue-protection perspective, since a reduction in customs value directly affects the duty payable. At the same time, this requirement creates practical difficulties for importers. International shipments pass through several parties—exporters, shipping lines, freight forwarders, custodians, port operators, insurers and customs brokers. By the time an importer discovers damage, establishing precisely when and where it occurred may not always be straightforward. There is also a distinction between physical damage and commercial dissatisfaction. A foreign supplier may subsequently agree to compensate an importer because goods do not meet contractual specifications. But, as All India Glass Manufacturers’ Federation makes clear, that commercial compensation cannot automatically be equated with a reduction in customs value. (Indian Kanoon) This distinction protects the integrity of the customs valuation process but can create difficulties where an inherent defect becomes apparent only after clearance. The importer may have strong contractual evidence against the supplier while simultaneously lacking the contemporaneous customs evidence necessary for a Section 22 claim. Another practical issue is valuation. Damage does not always result in a simple percentage reduction in value. For specialised machinery or components, even relatively limited physical damage may substantially affect usability. Conversely, goods may suffer visible damage without a corresponding proportionate reduction in market value. Section 22(3) addresses this by providing mechanisms for determining the value of the damaged goods rather than leaving the assessment entirely to the importer’s estimation. (India Code) The provision therefore attempts to balance two competing interests: providing fair relief to an importer whose goods have genuinely lost value, while preventing artificial reduction of customs duty through unsupported claims of damage. Part V – Conclusion and Suggestions Section 22 of the Customs Act, 1962 provides a focused statutory remedy for a specific commercial problem: the arrival or storage of imported goods in a damaged or deteriorated condition before the stage specified by law. Its importance lies in the fact that the law does not simply impose the original duty irrespective of what happens to the goods. Where the statutory requirements are satisfied, duty is adjusted proportionately to the reduced value of the goods. However, the provision should not be treated as an automatic refund mechanism. The importer must establish the circumstances of the damage, comply with the applicable statutory conditions and substantiate the reduced value. Judicial decisions, particularly All India Glass Manufacturers’ Federation, demonstrate that subsequent compensation from a foreign supplier or a later discovery of defective goods cannot, by itself, create an entitlement to abatement. (Indian Kanoon) From a compliance perspective, importers should therefore adopt a proactive approach. Any visible damage should be documented immediately, customs authorities should be informed at the earliest appropriate stage, and independent survey or valuation evidence should be preserved where necessary. Importers should also clearly distinguish between a claim for contractual compensation against a supplier and a statutory claim for customs-duty abatement. There is also a broader lesson for India’s indirect-tax framework. Customs valuation is necessarily concerned with the condition and value of goods at the legally relevant stage of importation. The post-GST system has not eliminated this principle; rather, the customs and import-IGST mechanisms continue to operate together. Ultimately, the effectiveness of Section 22 depends not merely on the existence of the statutory relief but on timely invocation, reliable evidence and proper valuation. For importers, the practical message is clear: where goods are genuinely damaged, the law provides relief—but that relief must be established through the statutory framework rather than assumed from the mere fact of commercial loss. References The Customs Act, 1962, §§ 12, 14, 17, 22, 23, 27. The Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, § 5. The Customs Tariff Act, 1975, § 3. All India Glass Manufacturers’ Federation v. Collector of Customs, Bombay, (1991) 4 SCC 357; 1991 (55) E.L.T. 5 (S.C.). M/s Udayani Ship Breakers Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs & Central Excise, Rajkot (Supreme Court, 8 February 2006). Wavin India Ltd. v. Collector of Customs (1993). Patel Wood Syndicate v. Collector of Customs (1992). Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Custom Duty Notifications Author Info Name: Vyshnavi Epari Qualification: Student - Others Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty Tariff Value Under Customs Law: How Notified Values Affect Import Taxation October 4, 2026 Customs Duty Exemptions: Scope, Conditions and Principle of Strict Interpretation October 4, 2026 Section 28 Customs Demand Does Not Require Prior Challenge to Self-Assessment: CESTAT Ahmedabad October 3, 2026 Customs Cannot Reclassify 226 Auto Parts Without Article-Specific Findings: CESTAT Chennai October 3, 2026 Used Rails’ Condition Governs Customs Classification; Value Rejection Needs Sequential Rules: CESTAT Chennai October 3, 2026 Helicopter Parts Eligible for SFIS/SHIS Customs Exemption: CESTAT Mumbai October 3, 2026