Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), through a representation dated 23 September 2026, has requested the Registrar of Firms, Maharashtra to recognise Company Secretaries in Practice as authorised professionals for certification and filing of partnership registration documents and other filings under the Partnership Act, 1932. The Institute has pointed out that various e-forms filed under the Act require enclosures to be certified exclusively by Advocates or Chartered Accountants, while Practising Company Secretaries are not accorded similar recognition despite their expertise in business laws, legal documentation and regulatory compliance. ICSI has also requested that Company Secretaries be permitted to submit applications and supporting documents on behalf of applicants, subject to appropriate authorisation. According to the representation, partnership registration and subsequent filings relating to changes in constitution, admission or retirement of partners, business activities, address and dissolution require examination of legal documents and statutory compliance. ICSI has further highlighted the recognition given to the profession under several central legislations, including the Companies Act, 2013, Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, Goods and Services Tax laws and SEBI Act, 1992. It submitted that extending similar recognition would improve the quality and accuracy of filings, widen access to qualified professionals, reduce procedural deficiencies and further Ease of Doing Business and Ease of Compliance in Maharashtra. THE INSTITUTE OF COMPANY SECRETARIES OF INDIA IN PURSUIT OF PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE Statutory body under an Act of Parliament (Under the jurisdiction of Ministry of Corporate Affairs) CS Pawan G. Chandak PRESIDENT ICSI: G&CL: SEPT: 01/2026 September 23, 2026 Smt. Kavita Navander Hon’ble Registrar of Firms Maharashtra State, Mumbai Respected Madam, Subject: Request for Recognition of Practising Company Secretaries for Certification and Filing of Partnership Registration Documents before Registrar of Firms, Maharashtra Greetings from the Institute of Company Secretaries of India! The Institute places on record its appreciation for the efforts of the Government of Maharashtra and the Registrar of Firms in facilitating online and efficient registration and administration of partnership firms in the State. We wish to draw your kind attention towards the various e-forms filed under the Partnership Act, 1932 which inter-alia requires enclosures with the forms to be certified by either Advocate or Chartered Accountant exclusively. However, Company Secretaries in Practice (PCS), despite their expertise in business laws, legal documentation, and regulatory compliance, are presently not accorded similar recognition. Submission: 1. In view of the foregoing, we respectfully request that Company Secretaries in Practice be recognised as authorised professionals for certification of partnership registration documents and other filings under the Partnership Act, 1932. 2. We also request that Company Secretaries be permitted to submit applications and supporting documents on behalf of applicants, subject to appropriate authorisation, in the same manner as other recognised professionals. Justification: Registration of partnership firms and subsequent filings relating to changes in the constitution of firms, admission or retirement of partners, change in business activities, change of address, dissolution and other statutory matters require careful examination of legal documents and compliance with the provisions of the Partnership Act, 1932. Company Secretaries are professionals specifically trained in commercial laws, legal drafting, entity registrations, compliance management and certification functions, which places them in a position to effectively assist businesses in ensuring accurate and compliant filings before the Registrar of Firms. It would improve the quality and accuracy of filings, expand access to qualified professionals, reduce procedural deficiencies and further the objective of Ease of Doing Business within the State. Also, the profession of Company Secretaries has been recognised under several central legislations for representation before statutory authorities, tribunals and quasi judicial forums, including the Companies Act, 2013, the Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, the Goods and Services Tax laws, the SEBI Act, 1992, and various other economic legislations. Extending similar recognition to Company Secretaries would provide partnership firms with access to competent professional representation, improve the quality of regulatory filings, minimise procedural deficiencies, reduce the burden on the authorities through accurate submissions, and promote greater legal compliance. It would also be aligned with the Government’s vision of Ease of Doing Business and Ease of Compliance by expanding the pool of recognised professionals available to assist businesses. We shall be happy to provide any further information or clarification that may be desired in this regard. Thanking you Yours faithfully (CS Pawan G. Chandak) President The Institute of Company Secretaries of India Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Company SecretaryICSI Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in CA, CS, CMA ICSI Seeks Practising Company Secretaries Inclusion as Attestation Officers on Kerala Egroops Portal September 30, 2026 ICSI Seeks Recognition of Practising Company Secretaries Before Food Safety Appellate Tribunal September 30, 2026 October 2026 Tax Compliance Deadlines for Income Tax and GST September 30, 2026 ICSI Seeks Stakeholder Feedback on Exposure Draft of Proposed Syllabus 2027 September 28, 2026 100 Powerful AI Prompts for Professional Auditors to Improve Audit Efficiency September 27, 2026 ICSI Seeks Inclusion of Company Secretaries for DGFT E-Commerce Compliance Certification September 26, 2026