Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14814 Case Name PCIT Vs Dinesh Jain (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Table of Contents▸ PCIT Vs Dinesh Jain (Supreme Court of India) Cases Discussed Conclusion Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); PCIT Vs Dinesh Jain (Supreme Court of India) Summary: The Supreme Court dismissed the Revenue’s special leave petitions challenging the Gujarat High Court decision in PCIT Vs Dinesh Jain, thereby leaving undisturbed the High Court’s refusal to interfere with the ITAT’s restriction of disallowance on alleged bogus purchases to 6%. The Supreme Court condoned the delay but held that there was no good ground to entertain the petitions and accordingly dismissed them. Read HC Judgment in this case: ₹38.50 Crore Bogus Purchases Cannot Be Entirely Disallowed: Gujarat HC The underlying dispute related to Assessment Years 2007-08 and 2008-09 and purchases allegedly obtained through concerns associated with the Bhanwarlal Jain Group. For AY 2007-08, the Assessing Officer had made an addition of ₹38.50 crore representing substantially the entire alleged bogus purchases. The CIT(A) sustained the addition, but the ITAT Surat restricted the disallowance to 6%. The Gujarat High Court noted that several Revenue appeals involving transactions connected with the same Bhanwarlal Jain Group had already been dismissed where the Tribunal estimated the disallowance at 6%. Relying particularly on PCIT-1 Vs Keshri Exports, the High Court held that the Tribunal’s conclusion was based on the material and factual analysis before it and disclosed no substantial question of law warranting interference under section 260A of the Income-tax Act, 1961. Supreme Court Finds No Ground to Entertain Revenue’s SLPs The Supreme Court’s order is brief and does not independently examine the merits of the bogus-purchase controversy. After condoning the delay, the Court recorded that it did not find any good ground to entertain the petitions and dismissed the special leave petitions. Pending applications were also disposed of. Accordingly, the Gujarat High Court’s order remains undisturbed. The dismissal of the SLPs should, however, be described with precision: the Supreme Court did not deliver a reasoned judgment independently approving the 6% methodology or laying down a general rule that every case of alleged bogus purchases must be restricted to 6%. Gujarat High Court Upheld 6% Disallowance The Revenue had approached the Gujarat High Court under section 260A against the ITAT Surat orders concerning AYs 2007-08 and 2008-09. Tax Appeal No. 1058 of 2024 for AY 2007-08 was treated as the lead matter. Information received from the Investigation Wing, Mumbai concerning the Bhanwarlal Jain Group indicated that the group was allegedly engaged in issuing non-genuine purchase accommodation bills. The assessee was alleged to have obtained purchase bills aggregating ₹38,50,63,613. The assessment was reopened and an order under section 143(3) read with section 147 was passed making an addition of ₹38,50,63,500. The CIT(A) upheld both the validity of reassessment and the addition. On further appeal, however, the ITAT restricted the disallowance to 6% of the disputed purchases, relying upon the approach adopted in another case involving similar transactions. Revenue Sought 100% Addition of Alleged Bogus Purchases The Revenue contended before the High Court that the alleged purchases were sham transactions supported by bills obtained from paper concerns associated with the Bhanwarlal Jain Group. It questioned whether the Tribunal could restrict the addition to 6% when the Assessing Officer had treated the entire purchase amount as liable to addition. The Revenue specifically relied upon authorities including N.K. Industries Ltd. Vs DCIT, PCIT Vs Premlata Tekriwal and N.K. Proteins Vs DCIT to contend that the entire amount could be brought to tax where the expenditure or purchases were established as bogus or unexplained. Only Profit Element Considered Taxable on Facts The Gujarat High Court found that similar departmental appeals involving transactions connected with the Bhanwarlal Jain Group had already been considered. It particularly referred to PCIT-1 Vs Keshri Exports, where the 6% disallowance had been upheld after considering Pr. CIT Vs Pankaj J. Chaudhary. The reasoning reproduced by the High Court proceeded on the factual premise that where purchases had been made from elsewhere but bills had been obtained from the impugned suppliers, taxing 100% of the purchases was not justified merely on that basis. The focus was instead on the benefit or profit element embedded in the disputed transactions. The Tribunal had considered turnover, gross-profit and net-profit figures and concluded, on the facts before it, that a 6% disallowance of the disputed purchases would sufficiently address possible revenue leakage. No Substantial Question of Law Arose Under Section 260A The Gujarat High Court emphasised that the Tribunal had reached its conclusion after analysing the material, facts and figures available before it. Since the determination reducing the disallowance to 6% was based on that factual assessment, the High Court found no reason to interfere. The Court also referred to Principal Commissioner of Income Tax-1, Surat Vs Surya Impex, involving accommodation entries allegedly provided by the same Bhanwarlal Jain Group, where similar questions had been decided in favour of the assessee. It consequently held that the proposed questions stood answered and that no question of law, much less any substantial question of law, arose. The Revenue’s tax appeals were dismissed without any order as to costs. Effect of Supreme Court’s SLP Dismissal The Supreme Court has now declined to entertain the Revenue’s challenge. The immediate consequence is that the Gujarat High Court order sustaining the Tribunal’s 6% estimation remains operative between the parties. At the same time, the Supreme Court order consists only of dismissal of the special leave petitions after recording that no good ground existed to entertain them. It contains no independent discussion of sections 68 or 69C, the evidentiary burden concerning bogus purchases, or the appropriate percentage of profit estimation. Therefore, the order should not be overstated as a Supreme Court declaration that only 6% can invariably be added in every bogus-purchase case. The underlying Gujarat High Court decision itself turned materially upon the Tribunal’s factual findings, comparable cases concerning the Bhanwarlal Jain Group and the absence of a substantial question of law. Cases Discussed PCIT-1 Vs Keshri Exports, [2024] 168 taxmann.com 528 (Gujarat High Court) — The Gujarat High Court relied upon this decision while sustaining the 6% disallowance. Keshri Exports had considered the Tribunal’s factual estimation of the profit element in alleged bogus purchases and declined to interfere with the 6% rate. PCIT Vs Premlata Tekriwal, [2023] 456 ITR 671 (Calcutta High Court) — Cited by the Revenue in support of its contention that where expenditure is established to be unexplained or bogus, the entire amount may be liable to addition. The Gujarat High Court nevertheless declined to interfere with the fact-specific 6% estimation in the present matter. Pr. CIT Vs Pankaj J. Chaudhary, R/Tax Appeal No. 617 of 2022, decided on 07.03.2023 (Gujarat High Court) — Considered in Keshri Exports and referred to by the Gujarat High Court while explaining the line of decisions supporting the 6% estimation in comparable cases. Principal Commissioner of Income Tax-1, Surat Vs Surya Impex, Tax Appeal No. 674 of 2022, decided on 16.01.2023 (Gujarat High Court) — Referred to as involving the same Bhanwarlal Jain Group and similar allegations of accommodation entries. The decision was recorded as having been rendered in favour of the assessee on similar questions. N.K. Proteins Ltd. Vs DCIT, [2017] 84 taxmann.com 195 / 250 Taxman 22 (Supreme Court) — Invoked by the Revenue for its contention supporting addition of the entire bogus purchase amount. The Revenue pointed out that the assessee’s SLP in that matter had been dismissed by the Supreme Court. N.K. Industries Ltd. Vs DCIT, [2016] 72 taxmann.com 289 (Gujarat High Court) — Relied upon by the Revenue to argue that 100% of purchases from bogus parties could be added rather than merely estimating a percentage of the disputed purchases. Mayank Diamonds Pvt. Ltd. (Gujarat High Court) — Discussed in the reasoning reproduced by the High Court. The Tribunal noted that in Mayank Diamonds the addition had been restricted to 5% of gross profit and compared the gross-profit position while determining an appropriate rate in the cases involving the Bhanwarlal Jain Group. Conclusion The Supreme Court’s dismissal of the Revenue’s SLPs leaves intact the Gujarat High Court decision refusing to interfere with the ITAT’s restriction of the alleged bogus-purchase disallowance to 6%. The High Court regarded the Tribunal’s estimation as a fact-based determination supported by comparable decisions involving the Bhanwarlal Jain Group and found that no substantial question of law arose under section 260A. The Supreme Court, however, dismissed the SLPs through a short non-reasoned order and did not independently prescribe 6% as a universal benchmark for bogus-purchase additions. Read High Court Judgment in this case: PCIT Vs Dinesh Jain (Gujarat High Court) FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER 1. Delay condoned. 2. We do not find any good ground to entertain these petitions. The special leave petitions are, accordingly, dismissed. 3. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Bogus purchasesincome tax act 1961supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,134 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Section 263 Invalid When AO Examined Ind AS Adjustments & MAT Book Profit: ITAT Indore October 6, 2026 Section 270A Penalty Cannot Survive After Quantum Addition Is Deleted: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Punjab & Haryana HC Quashes AY 2015-16 Reassessment Notices Issued After 1 April 2021 October 6, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Section 12AB Gets a Condonation Route—What About Delayed 80G Applications? October 6, 2026 Section 270A Penalty Cannot Survive After Quantum Addition Is Deleted: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Punjab & Haryana HC Quashes AY 2015-16 Reassessment Notices Issued After 1 April 2021 October 6, 2026 Ad Hoc Tenure Filter Cannot Determine Arm’s Length NCD Interest: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Equal-Value Land Exchange Does Not Trigger Section 43CA Addition: ITAT Chennai October 6, 2026 ITAT Delhi Directs 12AB & 80G Approval for Overseas Scholarships Paid in India October 6, 2026