Summary: Rule 37A of the CGST Rules is an important provision for businesses claiming Input Tax Credit (ITC), particularly where suppliers have reported invoices in GSTR-1 but have not filed their corresponding GSTR-3B. Section 16(2)(c) of the CGST Act requires that the tax paid by the supplier has actually reached the government, and Rule 37A operates to enforce this condition. Where a supplier fails to file the relevant GSTR-3B by 30th September following the end of the financial year in which the ITC was availed, the recipient must reverse the credit in its own GSTR-3B by 30th November of the same year. Merely seeing an invoice in GSTR-2B does not necessarily mean that the supplier has paid the tax. If the recipient fails to reverse the ITC by the prescribed deadline, the amount becomes payable along with interest at 18% per year, backdated to when the credit was first claimed. However, the reversal is not a permanent loss of the credit. Once the supplier subsequently files the pending GSTR-3B and pays the tax, the recipient is permitted to re-claim the same credit in a later month. The practical risk arises because businesses often focus on their own return compliance and do not continuously monitor supplier compliance. Businesses should therefore regularly check whether suppliers have filed their GSTR-3B and paid the tax, and review the position around September so that any required reversal can be made before the November deadline. Understanding the connection between Section 16(2)(c) and Rule 37A can help businesses avoid unnecessary interest costs and tax notices. Let’s understand it in plain words, without the legal jargon. Table of Contents▸ What is ITC, in simple terms The real condition — Section 16(2)(c) Where Rule 37A comes in Deadline Example Why this is dangerous if ignored Why it gets ignored What businesses should actually do Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); What is ITC, in simple terms When you buy goods or services for your business and pay GST on that purchase, you are allowed to reduce your own tax bill by that amount. This benefit is called Input Tax Credit. It sounds simple — you paid tax to your supplier, so you get credit for it. But here is the catch that most people don’t realise: your right to this credit does not depend only on what you did. It also depends on what your supplier does. The real condition — Section 16(2)(c) Section 16(2)(c) of the CGST Act lays down a basic condition for claiming ITC. It says that you can only claim credit if the tax you paid to your supplier has actually reached the government. In other words, it is not enough that your supplier collected GST from you. That supplier must also have deposited that money with the government by filing their return. Think of it like this — you give money to a courier to deliver a parcel. The courier company takes your money to deliver it. But if the courier never actually delivers the parcel, you cannot say the job is done, even though you paid. Similarly, your credit is only “real” once the tax has genuinely reached the government treasury, not just your supplier’s pocket. Where Rule 37A comes in This is where Rule 37A becomes important. It exists to enforce the condition set out in Section 16(2)(c). Here’s how it works in practice. Your supplier shows the sale invoice in their sales return (GSTR-1). Because of this, the invoice appears in your credit statement (GSTR-2B), and you claim the credit in good faith. But sometimes the supplier does not file their monthly tax payment return (GSTR-3B) for that period — meaning they never actually paid the tax to the government, even though they showed the invoice on paper. Rule 37A says: if your supplier has not filed that GSTR-3B by 30th September of the following financial year, you must reverse the credit you claimed. You need to do this reversal in your own GSTR-3B, and you must do it by 30th November of that same year. Deadline Example Suppose you claimed ITC during the financial year 2025-26, but your supplier did not file the corresponding GSTR-3B. If the supplier has still not filed it by 30th September 2026, you must reverse the ITC in your GSTR-3B by 30th November 2026. If you fail to reverse it by that date, interest at 18% per year applies from the date you originally availed the ITC. For further reading on the provision, see Rule 37A of CGST Rules: Reversal & Re-availment of Input Tax Credit (ITC) and Decoding Rule 37A of CGST Rules. Why this is dangerous if ignored Most businesses check whether an invoice shows up in their GSTR-2B and stop there. They assume that if the invoice is visible, the credit is safe. This is exactly the trap. An invoice appearing in your credit statement only means the supplier reported the sale — it does not mean the supplier paid the tax. For more on GSTR-2B, see FAQs on Form GSTR-2B and All about GSTR-2B. If you miss the 30th November deadline and don’t reverse the credit on time, you don’t just lose the credit — you also have to pay interest on it at 18% per year, backdated to when you first claimed it. That interest adds up quickly and eats into your profits for something that was, technically, someone else’s mistake. The good news is that this is not a permanent loss. Once your supplier eventually files their pending return and pays the tax, you are allowed to re-claim that same credit in a later month. So the money is not gone forever — but the interest you paid for the delay is gone forever. Why it gets ignored This rule gets overlooked because it does not depend on your own filing behaviour. Businesses focus on filing their own returns correctly and assume that is enough. Very few teams actively track whether each and every supplier has actually filed their return and paid tax, especially when there are hundreds of vendors involved. It becomes a background risk that nobody notices until a tax notice arrives, often much later, along with a demand for interest. What businesses should actually do The simple takeaway is this: don’t just check if an invoice appears in your credit statement. Regularly check whether your suppliers have actually filed their GSTR-3B and paid the tax for those invoices. Set a reminder around September every year to review cases, so you can reverse the credit before the November deadline and avoid paying any interest. For practical guidance on ITC reconciliation, see Guidance Note-Claim of ITC as per GSTR 2B and How to compare GST Liability Declared and ITC Claimed. In short, Section 16(2)(c) sets the rule that tax must actually reach the government for your credit to be valid, and Rule 37A is the enforcement mechanism that makes sure businesses follow it. Understanding this connection can save real money and protect you from unpleasant surprises. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: CA Abhishek Aggarwal Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Aggarwal Abhishek & Co. Location: Faridabad, Haryana Articles Published: 4 View full profile → More from CA Abhishek Aggarwal Builder Delay Can Trigger TDS Interest for Homebuyers September 6, 2026 Vague Fraud Allegation Cannot Invoke GST Section 74: SC September 6, 2026 Why GST Department Targets Buyers Instead of Defaulting Sellers September 6, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Penalty Cannot Exceed SCN Amount under Section 75(7) UPGST Act: Allahabad HC September 8, 2026 Karnataka HC Directs Reimbursement of GST Differential to Contractor September 8, 2026 Bombay HC Sets Aside GST Appeal Rejection Over Alleged 10% Pre-Deposit Shortfall September 8, 2026 Madras HC Allows GST ITC Rectification Application for Wrong Tax Head Credit September 8, 2026 Madras HC Upholds GST ITC Blocking under Rule 86A September 8, 2026 GSTAT Restricts Anti-Profiteering to HIG Units, Orders ₹70.58 Lakh Pass-Through September 8, 2026