Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12843 Case Name Commissioner of Customs Mundra Vs Mittal Pigments Pvt. Ltd. (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Commissioner of Customs Mundra Vs Mittal Pigments Pvt. Ltd. (Supreme Court of India) Summary: The dispute arose from the classification of imported lead-bearing material by Mittal Pigments Pvt. Ltd. The importer claimed classification as ‘Lead Concentrate’ under Heading 26070000, while the Customs Department treated the goods as lead waste and scrap under Heading 78020090 and demanded the differential customs duty. Before the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), the importer relied upon various laboratory reports and contended that the goods had been treated as concentrate in past and subsequent imports. The Department, on the other hand, relied upon other test reports, the appellant’s status as a secondary lead producer, pollution-control registrations and material concerning the nature and processing of the imported goods. Read CESTAT Order: Imported Lead Powder Classifiable as Lead Concentrate Under Heading 26070000: CESTAT Ahmedabad The CESTAT Ahmedabad, in its order dated 25 April 2018, considered the rival submissions and the material placed before it. The importer submitted that various test reports supported its claim that the goods were lead concentrate. The Department contended that recovery of lead to the extent claimed was not possible from concentrate and relied upon material indicating that the appellant was a secondary producer of lead and that the goods were connected with lead-acid battery scrap. The Tribunal also considered the distinction between production and import and observed that the appellant’s status as a primary or secondary producer was not decisive for classification of the imported goods. It ultimately held that the imported item fell under Heading 26070000 as ‘Concentrate’, set aside the impugned order and allowed the appeal. The Department challenged the CESTAT order before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court noted a fundamental defect in the Tribunal’s order: the rival submissions had not been considered adequately and the entire reasoning was contained in the final paragraph, which “virtually contains no reasons at all.” The Department also raised a grievance that its submissions had not been dealt with and that the appeal had been disposed of before the stipulated period for filing cross-objections had expired. The Supreme Court did not decide the substantive classification dispute. It held that the deficiencies in the Tribunal’s order warranted interference and therefore allowed the appeal, set aside the CESTAT’s order dated 25 April 2018 and restored Appeal No. C/10666/2018-DB to the CESTAT, West Zonal Bench at Ahmedabad, for fresh disposal. Importantly, the Supreme Court kept all rights and contentions of the parties on merits open. Thus, the Supreme Court’s order did not affirm either classification under Heading 26070000 or the Department’s proposed classification under Heading 78020090; instead, it required the Tribunal to reconsider the matter afresh after properly dealing with the rival submissions. CESTAT Sets Aside Chapter 78 Classification for Imported Lead-Bearing Material FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER Delay condoned. During the course of the hearing of the civil appeal it has emerged before this Court that the order of the Tribunal dated 25 April 2018 does not consider the rival submissions and the entire reasoning is contained in the last paragraph of the order which virtually contains no reasons at all. The appellant has a serious grievance of fact that their submissions have not been dealt with and that the appeal was disposed of by the Tribunal before the stipulated period for filing cross objections had come to an end. In this view of the matter, we allow the appeal and set aside the impugned judgment and order of the Tribunal dated 25 April 2018. We restore appeal No.C/10666/2018-DB to the file of the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal, West Zonal Bench at Ahmedabad for disposal afresh. All the rights and contentions of the parties on merit are kept open. The appeal is accordingly disposed of. Delay condoned. The appeal is disposed of in terms of the signed order. Pending application, if any, stands disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,776 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Cloud Point Alone Cannot Justify Seizure of Distillate Marine Fuel: Gujarat HC September 9, 2026 CESTAT Rejects Chapter 78 Classification of Imported Lead-Bearing Material September 9, 2026 ITAT Delhi Deletes Section 69A Addition on Locker Cash September 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty CESTAT Rejects Chapter 78 Classification of Imported Lead-Bearing Material September 9, 2026 One-Year EPR Registration Valid for Plastic Import Clearance: CBIC September 9, 2026 CAAR Delhi Classifies OPPO Tablet Back Cover Assembly with Battery Under CTH 8507 September 9, 2026 CESTAT Upholds 200% Customs Duty on Pakistani-Origin Brass Scrap Imports September 9, 2026 CESTAT Kolkata Quashes Differential IGST Demand on Revenue Neutrality Grounds September 8, 2026 Personal Customs Penalty Abates on Death and Cannot Be Recovered from Legal Heirs: Bombay hC September 8, 2026