Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Hero MotoCorp, the leading global manufacturer of motorcycles and scooters, has announced a robust 12% year-on-year growth in dispatches for September 2026. The company reported dispatching 7,66,348 units, a significant increase from the 6,87,220 units dispatched in the same month last year. This growth is attributed to heightened consumer demand and strong market momentum as the company gears up for the forthcoming festive season. The robust performance was notably driven by the company’s Domestic Internal Combustion Engine (ICE) business, which saw dispatches rise to 7,10,436 units in September, compared to 6,32,253 units in the previous year. The ICE scooters segment, in particular, recorded an impressive 60% year-on-year growth in dispatches. The domestic market also experienced a 31% growth in retail momentum, as indicated by VAHAN data, reflecting the strong consumer demand as the festive period approaches. In a bid to celebrate the festive season, Hero MotoCorp launched an innovative campaign that integrates five distinctive Indian folk art forms. This campaign uses the sounds of the Hero Destini scooter to create a unique soundscape, showcasing the brand’s commitment to celebrating India’s cultural heritage through creative storytelling. Additionally, the company has partnered with Swiggy to provide comprehensive road safety training to delivery partners across India, as part of its corporate social responsibility initiative, Ride Safe India. Hero MotoCorp’s Emerging Mobility business unit, VIDA, also maintained its growth trajectory with 28,798 units dispatched in September and an 83% growth in VAHAN data. The VIDA VX2 electric scooter achieved a remarkable feat by towing a passenger aircraft over a record distance, earning a place in the Asia Book of Records. This accomplishment highlights the VX2’s engineering excellence and the brand’s commitment to innovation. Internationally, Hero MotoCorp’s Global Business recorded a 5% sequential growth in dispatches, reaching 27,330 units in September. The company also celebrated a significant milestone of one million customers in Latin America, underscoring its strong brand presence and distribution network in the region. Analysts suggest that Hero MotoCorp’s strategic initiatives and strong market performance position it well for continued success in the upcoming festive season. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Bombay High Court reinstates de-registration and promoter change for Mahalaxmi project October 1, 2026