1666 K Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Office: 202-207-9100 Fax: 202-862-8430 www.pcaobus.org PCAOB Release No. 2026-006 July 20, 2026 Summary: In early 2026, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “Board” or “PCAOB”) initiated a process to develop a new strategic plan. The PCAOB’s 2026-2030 strategic plan (“Plan”) will articulate the organization’s goals and objectives in support of its statutory mission to protect investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. In addition to serving as a five-year roadmap for the organization, the PCAOB’s strategic plan will be used to develop the PCAOB’s budget each year. As a new and initial step in the strategic planning process, on March 31, 2026, the Board requested public comment on the PCAOB’s strategic priorities. The stakeholder feedback received through that process helped to inform the development of the Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives. For the next phase of the strategic planning process, the Board is seeking input regarding PCAOB’s Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives. Additional input from our stakeholders will help the Board and staff further refine the strategic direction, goals and objectives before the final Plan is presented for Board consideration. The Board welcomes and will consider all comments received to inform the continued development of the Plan. All comments will be made public and posted on the PCAOB website. You are encouraged, but not required, to provide your name and professional affiliation. Public Comment: Interested persons may submit written comments to the Board. Comments should be sent by email to comments@pcaobus.org, or through the PCAOB website at www.pcaobus.org. Comments may also be sent to the Office of the Secretary, PCAOB, 1666 K Street NW, Washington, DC 20006-2803. All comments should reference the Request for Public Comment Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives Request for Public Comment Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives PCAOB Release No. 2026-006 July 20, 2026 2 Board release number, PCAOB Release No. 2026-006, in the subject or reference line, and should be received by the Board by September 4, 2026. Board Contact: Lorene Rosenberg, Chief Strategy Officer, Office of the Chief Operating Officer (202-372- 5926, rosenbergl@pcaobus.org) On the 20 th day of July, in the year 2026, the foregoing was, in accordance with the Bylaws of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, ADOPTED BY THE BOARD. /s/ Phoebe W. Brown ________________________ Phoebe W. Brown Secretary Request for Public Comment Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives PCAOB Release No. 2026-006 July 20, 2026 3 Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives Job Aid Introduction To guide the PCAOB’s work over the current and next four years in ways that best serve our mission, vision, and values, and to support the development of the annual budgets, we have organized our draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives around three reinforcing priorities: Advance Audit Quality and Investor Protection We will advance audit quality and investor protection by directing our oversight to the areas that have the most significant effect on audit quality—promoting a high-quality standard-setting approach, modernizing inspections through a quality control-focused approach, and targeting enforcement toward conduct that creates meaningful risk to investors. Clarify Expectations and Our Bases for Decisions Leading to Understandable Outcomes Effective regulation depends on clarity and consistency. We must clearly articulate the principles that guide our standard setting, inspections, and enforcement decisions, and cascade those principles throughout our various programs, promoting clear expectations and disciplined decision-making leading to outcomes aligned with investor protection and audit quality. Transform How Oversight Is Delivered We will transform our operations through strategic investments in technology and data capabilities, strengthening internal coordination and governance, and investing in our people to ensure oversight remains effective, efficient, and fit for purpose. These priorities—Advance, Clarify, and Transform—provide the organizing logic for the draft goals and objectives below. Request for Public Comment Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives PCAOB Release No. 2026-006 July 20, 2026 4 Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives Goal 1: Modernize Standard Setting and Implementation Advance audit quality and clarify what constitutes a high-quality standard We intend to modernize our standard-setting approach to ensure that our standards meaningfully improve audit quality, can be implemented effectively, and remain aligned with the public interest. Objective 1.1: Establish a Framework for High-Quality Standard Setting We intend to promote a standard-setting approach that is transparent and advances investor protection, serves the public interest, and produces standards that are effective, implementable, clear and informed by consideration of expected costs and benefits. Objective 1.2: Support Effective Implementation and Post-Implementation Evaluation We intend to support effective implementation and application of new and existing standards through guidance, consultation, and post-implementation review, focused on evaluating the overall effect, including costs and benefits, of PCAOB standards. We also intend to assess whether additional guidance is needed to address the use of AI and other emerging technologies used in financial reporting and the audit process. Objective 1.3: Foster Alignment with International Standards We intend to evaluate opportunities to reduce unnecessary differences between PCAOB standards and international auditing standards where doing so promotes audit quality, efficiency, and consistency, while preserving the PCAOB's independent standard-setting authority and maintaining any differences necessary to reflect U.S. legal requirements, investor protection priorities, or other regulatory developments. Objective 1.4: Advance Responsive, Risk-Based Standard-Setting Priorities We intend to use our oversight activities to anticipate risk and prioritize high-quality standard setting. We intend to draw on stakeholder feedback and insights from inspections, enforcement, consultations, and other oversight activities to identify emerging issues, assess evolving audit risks, and focus PCAOB standard-setting priorities on the areas where new or amended standards would have the greatest impact. Request for Public Comment Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives PCAOB Release No. 2026-006 July 20, 2026 5 Goal 2: Modernize the Inspections and Registration Programs Advance investor protection and transform how inspection and registration insights are generated We intend to modernize our inspections and registration programs to improve their effectiveness, timeliness, transparency and contribution to audit quality and investor protection. Objective 2.1: Focus Inspections on Firms’ Systems of Quality Control We intend to conduct inspections that assess firms’ quality control systems, including the design, implementation, and operation of controls that support audit quality. Inspections will evaluate whether firms’ quality control systems effectively identify and address risks to audit quality, remediate deficiencies in a timely manner, and prevent their recurrence. We intend to supplement and reinforce our quality control-focused inspection approach with individual engagement reviews. Objective 2.2: Improve Inspection Report Clarity and Timeliness We intend to engage stakeholders to improve the relevance, transparency, and timeliness of inspection reporting to better inform stakeholders and support their timely decision-making. Objective 2.3: Revise Evaluation and Reporting of Remediation Determinations We intend to revise how we evaluate and report on inspection-identified deficiencies in firms’ quality control systems and firm remediation activities by supporting more timely monitoring and assessment of remedial actions and whether firms’ quality control systems effectively identify, correct, and prevent recurrence of such deficiencies. Objective 2.4: Establish a Permanent Broker-Dealer Auditor Inspection Program We intend to establish a permanent inspection program for broker-dealer auditors to promote consistent oversight and thus investor protection, taking into account the risk profile of broker dealers and the nature of their audit and attestation engagements while balancing the costs and benefits of the program to investors. Objective 2.5: Assess and Enhance the Firm Registration Process We intend to assess the firm registration process to identify opportunities to promote transparency, sharpen risk focus, and enhance audit quality. Request for Public Comment Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives PCAOB Release No. 2026-006 July 20, 2026 6 Goal 3: Sharpen Enforcement Focus on Conduct Harmful to Investors Advance accountability and clarify enforcement priorities We intend to sharpen the focus of our enforcement program on matters where accountability is needed to protect investors, support audit integrity, and reinforce confidence in U.S. capital markets. Objective 3.1: Focus Enforcement on Significant Risks to Investors and Market Integrity We intend to concentrate enforcement resources on significant violations that present meaningful risks to investors, audit integrity, and the integrity of U.S. capital markets. Objective 3.2: Clarify Enforcement Principles and Priorities and Strengthen SEC Coordination We intend to strengthen the strategic focus, transparency, and effectiveness of the enforcement program by clarifying enforcement principles, priorities, and processes and formalizing aspects of coordination with the SEC. Establishing clearer protocols for investigative leadership responsibilities could streamline coordination and free enforcement resources to focus on advancing timely investor-protection outcomes. Goal 4: Deepen Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Clarify expectations through two-way engagement We intend to deepen engagement with investors, audit committees, audit firms, advisory groups, other audit standard setters, and other stakeholders to strengthen oversight effectiveness. Objective 4.1 Strengthen Stakeholder Engagement to Inform Oversight Priorities and Communications We intend to deepen engagement with investors, audit committees, audit firms, advisory groups, other audit standard setters, and other key stakeholders to gather perspectives on developments affecting audit quality, oversight priorities, and the effectiveness of PCAOB communications. We will use these insights to inform standard setting, inspections, outreach, and other oversight activities consistent with the PCAOB’s statutory mandate. Request for Public Comment Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives PCAOB Release No. 2026-006 July 20, 2026 7 Objective 4.2: Improve Organizational Transparency and Accountability We intend to promote transparency and accountability by demonstrating, through clear reporting and other communications and outreach activities, how our oversight activities protect investors, serve the public interest, and advance audit quality. Goal 5: Modernize Oversight Through Technology and Data Transform oversight tools and risk identification We intend to leverage data-driven and technology-enabled oversight capabilities to strengthen risk identification, inform regulatory judgments, and enhance the effectiveness, consistency, and timeliness of standard setting, inspections, enforcement and other oversight activities. Objective 5.1: Enable Data-Driven, Risk-Based Oversight Capabilities We intend to develop data-driven and risk-based oversight capabilities to improve risk identification, inform regulatory judgments, and enhance the effectiveness and timeliness of standard setting, inspections, enforcement, and other oversight activities. Objective 5.2: Develop Internal Technology, Data and AI Capabilities We intend to make strategic investments in technology, data and AI capabilities to modernize oversight, strengthen analytical and risk assessment capabilities, and ensure the PCAOB remains equipped to oversee an increasingly technology-enabled audit environment. The investments will also support Goal 1: Modernize Standard Setting and Implementation, by informing standard setting and implementation efforts related to emerging technologies and evolving audit practices. Goal 6: Strengthen Organizational Effectiveness and Stewardship Transform how the PCAOB operates for long-term effectiveness We intend to invest in our people and maintain disciplined, cost-effective operations. Objective 6.1: Advance Organizational Effectiveness Through Disciplined Investment We intend to strengthen the PCAOB's long-term organizational effectiveness through disciplined investment in enterprise governance, technology, data, and operational capabilities that support effective oversight, sound resource stewardship, and execution of strategic priorities. Request for Public Comment Draft 2026-2030 Strategic Plan Goals and Objectives PCAOB Release No. 2026-006 July 20, 2026 8 Objective 6.2: Strengthen Mission-Critical Organizational Culture and Workforce Capabilities We intend to strengthen the PCAOB's culture and workforce capabilities by investing in talent, professional development, leadership, and accountability practices that enable staff to execute our mission, respond to emerging risks, and deliver high-quality oversight. We will support these capabilities through targeted investments in talent, training, technology, and other mission-critical resources. Measuring Strategic Plan Progress The PCAOB will use its governance, budgeting, and performance planning processes to assess progress toward these strategic objectives, align resources with priorities, and adapt to emerging risks and opportunities.