Guidance Note on SEBI-DNVS The recipients of the documents issued by SEBI may note the following on the usage of SEBI-DNVS for verification of such documents- 1.1. As the revamped system is operationalized from September 2026, any communication issued prior to the said period may be verified by the recipient by sending an e-mail with necessary details to dnvs@sebi.gov.in. 1.2. A typical SEBI Document Number would be in the following format: I/...... (no.)/..... (year), typically like this – I/19765/2026 1.3. To avail the facility of verification, – (a) The recipient of SEBI notice/letter or any person on his/her behalf may access the SEBI-DNVS page on the SEBI website and enter the following details- i. Name of the verifier; ii. Relationship of the verifier with the recipient of the SEBI communication (in case the verifier is the same as the recipient of the SEBI communication, ‘self’ may be entered); iii. Mobile number used for verification; iv. OTP received on such mobile number; and v. Captcha code. (b) On successful verification of the OTP received on the verifier’s mobile number in the system, the verifier shall enter the following details within the time limit specified on the webpage- i. Outward Number quoted in the SEBI communication in the field ‘Document Number’; ii. Sender’s Name (name of SEBI Official who is the signatory of the communication being verified); iii. Date of issue of the communication; iv. Name of the Recipient; and v. Subject of the communication. While keying in the Document/Outward number, care should be taken to key in the number in the same format as is mentioned in the communication. Further, the subject entered for verification should be exactly as the subject mentioned in the communication. (c) Upon entering the above inputs, if the details provided above are correct/genuine, the system shall return the query with the following result:- “A letter/communication with these details has been issued by SEBI. This, however, does not constitute a verification of the contents of the letter/communication. For verification of the contents of the document, the recipient may contact the sender as per the details mentioned therein.” (d) If incorrect details are entered or if the Document/Outward number is not found to be correct, the system shall return the following result: “No record found. The recipient is advised to confirm the inputs provided or confirm the authenticity of the document by sending an email to SEBI at dnvs@sebi.gov.in.” In such a case, the verifier/recipient is advised to confirm the correctness of the inputs entered in the system. If the inputs are found to be correct and the document number is still not verified, the recipient may immediately send an e-mail at dnvs@sebi.gov.in for necessary verification. Such intimation would also serve as a means for SEBI to be made aware of issuance of any forged letter. The names of the SEBI employees along with their contact details including email addresses (with the domain address @sebi.gov.in) are also available in the SEBI website. (e) After three failed attempts at verification either on the user authentication page (first page) or the document credential verification page (“second page”) of the system, the mobile number used to access the SEBI-DNVS shall be blocked from accessing the system for a period of 24 hours and the following message shall be displayed on 4 th attempt onwards: “Too many failed attempts. You are requested to retry after 24 hours.” (f) If after 24 hours, the subsequent three attempts using the same mobile number result in a failure, the mobile number used to access the system shall be permanently blocked and no verification shall be allowed through the use of such number. In such a case, the following message shall be displayed: “Too many failed attempts. The verifier is advised to confirm the authenticity of the document by sending an email to SEBI at dnvs@sebi.gov.in”. The users are advised to re-check the inputs entered to the system during their attempts at verification of the details of the document issued by SEBI. **************