Summary: GST law distinguishes between wrong availment of input tax credit and its utilisation for determining interest liability. Section 50(3), read with Rule 88B(3), links interest to ITC that has been both wrongly availed and utilised, with Rule 88B prescribing how utilisation is determined by reference to the Electronic Credit Ledger. Rule 42, however, creates a separate difficulty where annual finalisation shows that common ITC attributable to exempt supplies or non-business purposes exceeds the amount reversed during the year. Rule 42(2)(a) refers to interest under Section 50(1) on the differential amount from the succeeding financial year. This raises an interpretational issue where the additional credit identified through annual true-up was never actually utilised. The statutory provisions therefore need to be reconciled rather than treating every additional Rule 42 reversal automatically as utilised credit. The critical questions are the statutory basis on which interest is demanded, whether the disputed credit was actually utilised, and the period for which such utilisation continued. TaxGuru material discussing Section 50(3), Rule 88B and judicial decisions also records the principle that wrong availment without utilisation does not by itself trigger interest under Section 50(3). Interest on Wrongly Availed Input Tax Credit under GST: A Brief Analysis of Section 50(3), Rule 88B(3) and Rule 42(2)(a) Table of Contents▸ Introduction 1. Section 50(3): Utilisation is Relevant 2. Rule 88B(3): Interest from Date of Utilisation 3. Rule 42(2)(a): The Different Interest Mechanism 4. The Apparent Statutory Tension 5. Can Rule 42 Override Section 50(3)? Conclusion Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction The levy of interest on wrongly availed Input Tax Credit (ITC) has been a recurring issue under GST, particularly in cases involving reversal under Rule 42. The controversy arises from the interaction between Section 50(3) of the CGST Act, 2017, Rule 88B(3) and Rule 42(2)(a). Section 50(3) provides for interest where ITC has been “wrongly availed and utilised”, while Rule 88B(3) provides that interest is calculated from the date of utilisation of such ITC. However, Rule 42(2)(a), while providing for annual finalisation of common ITC Reversal, specifically requires interest under Section 50(1) where the final annual reversal exceeds the amount already reversed during the year. This creates an important question: Can interest arise on an additional Rule 42 reversal even where the corresponding ITC was never utilised? 1. Section 50(3): Utilisation is Relevant Section 50(3) specifically refers to ITC that has been “wrongly availed and utilised.” Therefore, mere availment of ITC and utilisation of ITC are distinct events. Where wrongly availed ITC remains in the Electronic Credit Ledger and has not been utilised, the statutory basis for interest under Section 50(3) is arguably absent. For example: Particulars Amount ITC wrongly availed ₹10 lakh ITC remaining in Electronic Credit Ledger ₹10 lakh Wrong ITC utilised Nil Interest under Section 50(3) Nil The legislative approach is also reflected in the GST Council’s deliberations, which recognised that the interest provision is intended to apply to the utilised portion rather than the entire ITC merely availed. This distinction has also received judicial recognition. In Grundfos Pumps India Pvt Ltd Vs Joint Commissioner of GST & Central Excise (Madras High Court), the Court considered the retrospectively substituted Section 50(3) and held that interest liability was attracted where wrongly availed ITC had actually been utilised. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”1″} 2. Rule 88B(3): Interest from Date of Utilisation Rule 88B(3) provides the mechanism for calculating interest on wrongly availed and utilised ITC. The provision links the computation of interest to the date of utilisation. Its Explanation further provides a statutory mechanism for determining when wrongly availed ITC is considered to have been utilised, based on the balance available in the Electronic Credit Ledger. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”2″} Thus, the basic principle is: Wrong availment → Utilisation → Interest under Section 50(3) Accordingly, mere wrong availment does not automatically result in Section 50(3) interest. The treatment of the Electronic Credit Ledger has also been addressed in CBIC Circular No. 192/04/2023-GST dated 17 July 2023, which clarifies the manner in which the balance of IGST, CGST and SGST credits is considered for determining utilisation of wrongly availed IGST credit. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”3″} 3. Rule 42(2)(a): The Different Interest Mechanism Rule 42 provides for proportionate reversal of common ITC attributable to exempt supplies or non-business purposes. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”4″} At the end of the financial year, a final annual calculation is required. Where the final amount of reversal exceeds the amount already reversed during the year, the excess is required to be reversed. Importantly, Rule 42(2)(a) also provides for interest under Section 50(1) from the first day of April of the succeeding financial year until the date of payment. The annual true-up mechanism and accompanying interest requirement have also been discussed in TaxGuru’s analysis of finalisation of common ITC under Rule 42. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”5″} This creates a different statutory mechanism from Section 50(3). 4. The Apparent Statutory Tension Consider the following example: Common ITC availed: ₹1 crore Reversal made during the year: ₹10 lakh Final annual reversal required: ₹15 lakh Additional reversal: ₹5 lakh The ₹5 lakh was never utilised and sufficient ITC balance remained in the Electronic Credit Ledger. In such a case, two provisions appear to operate differently: Section 50(3) read with Rule 88B(3): No interest merely because ITC was availed, if it was never utilised. Rule 42(2)(a): Interest under Section 50(1) is specifically prescribed on the additional annual reversal from 1 April of the succeeding financial year. The issue, therefore, is not whether Rule 42 can deem unutilised ITC to have been utilised. Rather, the question is whether Rule 42(2)(a) independently imposes interest under Section 50(1), notwithstanding the absence of utilisation. 5. Can Rule 42 Override Section 50(3)? A Rule cannot ordinarily override or enlarge the substantive charging provision contained in the Act. However, Rule 42(2)(a) does not purport to apply Section 50(3). It specifically refers to Section 50(1). Therefore, the legal issue requires reconciliation of two separate statutory mechanisms: Section 50(3) / Rule 88B(3): Interest linked to wrongly availed and utilised ITC Rule 42(2)(a): Interest under Section 50(1) on additional annual reversal. The applicability of interest in a particular case must therefore be examined by identifying the statutory provision under which the interest is actually being demanded. Conclusion The GST framework draws a clear distinction between mere availment of ITC and its utilisation. Under Section 50(3) read with Rule 88B(3), interest on wrongly availed ITC is linked to the extent and period of its utilisation. In this context, the reversal contemplated under Rule 42 is essentially a mechanism for determining the portion of common ITC that is attributable to exempt supplies or non-business purposes and is therefore required to be reversed. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”6″} Any excess availment of ITC arising on account of an incorrect or insufficient reversal under Rule 42 would, in substance, constitute wrong availment of ITC. Consequently, where such ITC has been utilised, the consequential interest liability is required to be examined with reference to Section 50(3) read with Rule 88B(3), rather than treating the reversal itself as an independent tax liability attracting interest under Section 50(1). Accordingly, Rule 42 should not be read in isolation from the substantive provisions governing interest on wrongly availed and utilised ITC under Section 50(3). The fact that Rule 42(2)(a) refers to interest under Section 50(1) requires reconciliation with the statutory scheme of Section 50, particularly where the underlying ITC has remained unutilised. The question of actual utilisation of the disputed ITC therefore remains material in determining the applicability and quantum of interest. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Interestinput tax credit Author Info Name: Vinod Daga Qualification: Graduate Location: Gurgaon, Haryana Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Vinod Daga GST TDS Whether Cash or Credit October 11, 2021 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Calcutta HC allows Section 16(5) Relief for GSTR-3B Filed by 30 November 2021 September 29, 2026 GSTAT Appeal Token: 60 Calendar Days or 1,440 Hours from Generation? September 29, 2026 Madhya Pradesh HC Grants Bail in Pan Masala GST & HSNS Cess Evasion Case September 29, 2026 CRS Services IGST Demand Against Singapore Airlines Requires Deeper Examination: Bombay HC September 29, 2026 57th GST Council Meeting: What Has Changed and What Industry Wants Next September 29, 2026 GST Common Adjudicating Authority Valid for Composite SCNs: Delhi HC September 29, 2026