Summary: Bank auditors carry a professional responsibility that extends beyond checking records and identifying irregularities. Their work directly affects public money, depositor confidence and the credibility of the Chartered Accountancy profession. This article urges CA auditors working in the banking industry to preserve their professional independence, exercise sound judgment and stand firmly by observations supported by facts, applicable guidelines and audit evidence. It highlights the gap that can exist between documented policies and actual banking practices, the commercial pressures auditors may face when raising uncomfortable findings, and the long-term risks of overlooking non-compliance for short-term business considerations. The author emphasises that auditors share responsibility for maintaining ethical standards and that compromising professional judgment can damage both individual reputations and the standing of the profession. Through a personal reflection on accountability, courage and professional duty, the article encourages auditors to protect the value of the CA qualification by refusing to let convenience override integrity and public interest. This article is for all my fellow Auditor colleagues working in the banking industry. We all know how much effort, sacrifice and perseverance goes into earning those two letters – CA before our name. But today, I want to raise a question for all of us: Table of Contents▸ Are we protecting the value of those two letters through the way we perform our responsibilities as Bank Auditors? Do we stand by our professional view, or do we step back? Who will ultimately be answerable? Whose name and professional qualification will be at stake? If I take a step back even when I know that something is completely wrong, then who will clean it up? Two letters. One responsibility. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Are we protecting the value of those two letters through the way we perform our responsibilities as Bank Auditors? Banking is an industry where the people driving the business are often primarily focused on business growth and commercial considerations. In such an environment, the value addition expected from a third-party auditor is not always given the importance it deserves. At the same time, we all know that banking is an industry where loopholes and non-compliances can have a much wider impact because public money and public interest are directly involved. We have policies. We have guidelines. We have controls. But many times, what exists on paper and what happens in practice can be completely different. And here, I believe, auditors also need to look within ourselves. The present situation of non-compliances and irregularities cannot be attributed only to those driving the banking business. We, as auditors, also have a responsibility when we fail to take a firm professional stand or when we accept what is presented to us without adequately standing by our own observations. There are situations where we identify an issue, raise an observation and explain our concern. But if that observation is not favourable from a business perspective, the pressure to reconsider our position can arise. And this is where our professional responsibility is truly tested. Do we stand by our professional view, or do we step back? I believe that wherever our view is based on facts, applicable guidelines and professional judgement, and where the matter is important from the perspective of public interest, we should remain firm. This does not mean that an auditor should unnecessarily oppose business decisions. It simply means that commercial or business considerations should not become a reason to overlook applicable policies, guidelines or controls. A decision may show positive results in the short run from a business perspective. But if the required guidelines are not followed, the same decision can have a negative impact in the long run — particularly in an industry where the stake is so high and the public is directly involved. And when that happens, the question is: Who will ultimately be answerable? At that point, the first finger may not necessarily be pointed towards the bank official or the person who originally took the decision. It may be pointed towards the Auditor – the CA who audited and reported on it. And then comes the question that every CA working in this profession should seriously consider: Whose name and professional qualification will be at stake? This is why I would request every CA Auditor to think not just once or twice, but ten times, whenever we come across an interpretative or debatable issue in our assignment. Not because we should be afraid to take a stand. But because we should understand the responsibility attached to the stand we take. We worked extremely hard to earn those two letters. Let us not, through our own actions, dilute their value. At times, I also ask myself: Why am I working in this industry and wasting so much energy on these issues? But then one thought comes to my mind: If I take a step back even when I know that something is completely wrong, then who will clean it up? That thought makes me continue. As Mahatma Gandhi said: “If you want to change the world, start with yourself.” Perhaps the same applies to our profession. If we want the value of audit to be recognized, we must first demonstrate that value through our own actions. If we want our professional opinion to be respected, we must have the courage to stand by it when it is based on truth. And if we want to protect the future stake of our profession in banking, we must not allow convenience to replace professional responsibility. Two letters. One responsibility. CA. Let us ensure that these two letters continue to represent not just a qualification, but also the courage to stand by what is right! You can reach to me at [email protected] Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under bank auditchartered accountants Author Info Name: CA Rohan Pingle Qualification: CA in Practice Company: CA Rohan R. Pingle & Partner at Motilal & Associates LLP Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 99 View full profile → More from CA Rohan Pingle Applicability of Section 332(1) of Income Tax Act, 2025 for Educational Institutions Covered by Schedule VII Sl. No. 19 June 19, 2026 GST Litigation & Representation: Role, Responsibilities & Opportunities for CAs June 9, 2026 Taxation of Co-operative Societies under New Income Tax Act, 2025 June 2, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in CA, CS, CMA ICAI Board Can Close Misconduct Complaint on Plausible View: Delhi HC October 7, 2026 Tax Technology Transformation: How Automating Compliance Protects CFOs from Audit Risks October 7, 2026 ICSI Merit-cum-Means Assistance Scheme 2026: Apply by 25 November October 7, 2026 Analysis of Notifications and Circulars for Week Ending 4th October 2026 October 7, 2026 Analysis of Notifications and Circulars for Week Ending 27th September 2026 October 5, 2026 Analysis of Notifications and Circulars for Week Ending 20th September 2026 October 5, 2026