Summary: GST assessment under the CGST Act, 2017 encompasses self-assessment, provisional assessment, scrutiny of returns, best judgment assessment and summary assessment. The framework places primary responsibility on taxpayers to correctly determine and discharge their tax liabilities while empowering tax authorities to scrutinize returns and intervene where discrepancies, non-filing, non-registration or urgent revenue risks arise. Section 59 establishes self-assessment as the foundation of GST compliance, while Section 60 provides provisional assessment where the applicable rate or value cannot be determined. Section 61, read with Rule 99, enables scrutiny of returns through Forms GST ASMT-10, ASMT-11 and ASMT-12. Sections 62 and 63 deal with best judgment assessments in cases involving non-filers and unregistered persons, respectively, whereas Section 64 provides an exceptional summary assessment mechanism to protect revenue where delay may be prejudicial. The growing use of portal-based data, GSTR-1, GSTR-3B, GSTR-2B and Rules 88C and 88D has made reconciliation and digital compliance increasingly important. Judicial developments concerning ITC mismatches, supplier defaults, personal hearings and retrospective cancellation of registrations further underline the need for taxpayers to maintain documentary evidence, reconcile records continuously and respond promptly to notices. Table of Contents▸ PART I – INTRODUCTION: WHEN THE PORTAL PINGS The term 'Assessment' under 1. Self-Evaluation (Section 59): The Basis of Confidence 2. Section 60 of the Provisional Assessment: 3. Scrutiny of Returns (Section 61 read with Rule 99): 4. Best Judgment Assessment (Sections 62 and 63): 5. Summary Assessment (Section 64): The Emergency Power PART III – CONTEMPORARY ANALYSIS: SCRUTINY IN THE ERA OF BIG DATA Practical Scenario: The ITC Mismatch The Rise of Rule 88C and 88D Case Study: The 'Circular Trading' Trap The Supplier-Recipient Nexus: A Legal Conflict PART IV – CRITICAL DISCUSSION: CHALLENGES AND JUDICIAL TRENDS 1. The Right to Personal Hearing: A Non Negotiable Pillar 2. The ITC Reversal Horror: Retrospective Actions 3. The 'Reason to Believe' vs. 'Reason to Suspect' 4. Classification Disputes: The 'Cereal' vs. 'Snack' Debate Ambiguity in Best Judgment: The 'Vicious Cycle' of Non-Compliance PART V – CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS Summary of Recommendations: Show all 21 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); PART I – INTRODUCTION: WHEN THE PORTAL PINGS Imagine this: You’ve just finished a long week of business, and you’re finally settling down for a quiet weekend. You decide to take one last look at your GST portal, and there it is a notification for an ‘ASMT-10’. Suddenly, your weekend doesn’t feel so quiet anymore. Does a GST notice mean you’ve done something wrong? Not necessarily. But it does mean you’ve entered the complex world of ‘Assessment.’ In the GST regime, the government treats you as a partner, trusting you to calculate your own taxes through ‘Self-Assessment.’ However, to keep the system fair, the law includes several ‘checkpoints’ where authorities step in to verify the numbers. In this blog, we’re going to pull back the curtain on GST assessments. We’ll look at why they happen, the different forms they take from routine spot- checks to the more serious ‘Best Judgment’ scenarios and most importantly, what your obligations are when the taxman comes knocking. Whether you’re a business owner looking to stay compliant or a student of law, let’s explore how to navigate this process with confidence and clarity. The term ‘Assessment’ under Section 2(11) of the CGST Act, 2017, is defined broadly to include self assessment, re- assessment, provisional assessment, summary assessment, and best judgment assessment. It is the process of determining the tax liability under the Act. In a digital-first economy like India, this process has evolved from physical interface to a data driven, algorithm- led scrutiny. PART II – LEGAL FRAMEWORK: THE STATUTORY PROVISIONS The Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act, 2017’s Chapter XII governs the GST assessment procedure. This framework is a thorough legal architecture created to guaranty that the sovereign’s right to collect taxes is used fairly and openly, rather than just a collection of regulations. 1. Self-Evaluation (Section 59): The Basis of Confidence “Assessments” were mostly departmental in the former Service Tax and Excise system. This script was inverted by GST. The “burden of accuracy” is placed on the taxpayer under Section 59. The Process: For every tax period, a registered individual must self-evaluate the taxes owed and submit a return. This requires a number of mental and accounting steps, such as confirming the Place of Supply and figuring out the Time of Supply and ensuring the correct Classification under the HSN code system. Legal Implication: Because the taxpayer self-assesses, any ‘short payment’ discovered later is treated as a violation of the taxpayer’s own declaration, which can lead to higher penalties under Sections 73 and 74 if ‘fraud’ or ‘suppression of facts’ is alleged. 2. Section 60 of the Provisional Assessment: Handling Uncertainty For companies handling complicated or unique transactions, Section 60 serves as a safety net. When to Apply: When a company is unable to ascertain the “Value” (such as in related-party transactions where Rule 28 applies) or the “Rate” (such as a new product that might be subject to 12% or 18% HSN). The Financial Guardrail: The taxpayer uses a surety to execute a bond. The taxpayer pays interest at the rate of 18% from the initial due date if the final assessment reveals a larger tax obligation. In contrast, they receive a refund with 6% interest if they overpaid. Time Restrictions: The final assessment order must be passed by the appropriate officer within six months. The Joint/Additional Commissioner may extend this time frame for an additional six 3. Scrutiny of Returns (Section 61 read with Rule 99): A supervisory power under which the proper officer scrutinizes the return and related particulars furnished by the registered person to verify the correctness of the return, and if any discrepancy is found, issues Form GST ASMT-10 seeking explanation Form ASMT-10: This is the most famous notice in the GST ecosystem. It serves as a ‘pre-show cause notice.’ The taxpayer has 30 days to reply in Form ASMT- 11. The ‘Acceptable’ Reply: If the taxpayer explains the mismatch (e.g., “The mismatch in ITC is due to an amendment filed by my supplier in the subsequent month”), and the officer is satisfied, the proceedings are closed via Form ASMT-12. The ‘Escalation’: If the reply is not filed or is unsatisfactory, the law allows the officer to escalate. They don’t just ‘demand’ tax under Section 61; they must 4. Best Judgment Assessment (Sections 62 and 63): Section 62 applies where a registered person fails to furnish returns within 15 days of a notice under Section 46, while Section 63 applies where a person liable to register fails to obtain registration and the proper officer assesses liability to the best of his judgment. The 30-Day Escape Clause: If the taxpayer files a ‘valid return’ within 30 days of the best judgment order, the order is deemed withdrawn! However, interest under Section 50 and late fees under Section 47 still apply. This is a unique ‘second chance’ provided by the law to encourage compliance over litigation. Section 63 (Unregistered Persons): This is for ‘tax evaders’—those who meet the threshold (e.g., 20/40 Lakhs) but haven’t 5. Summary Assessment (Section 64): The Emergency Power This is a rare power used to ‘protect the interest of revenue.’ An exceptional power that may be used where the proper officer has sufficient grounds to believe that delay in assessment may adversely affect the interest of revenue, subject to prior permission of the Additional Commissioner or Joint Commissioner Scenario: If an officer finds a warehouse full of goods where the owner is unknown or likely to abscond, they can assess the tax immediately. Withdrawal: The taxpayer can apply for withdrawal of this order within 30 days if they can prove the ‘urgency’ didn’t exist or that the assessment is erroneous. PART III – CONTEMPORARY ANALYSIS: SCRUTINY IN THE ERA OF BIG DATA Contemporary GST administration increasingly relies on system-based scrutiny, data analytics, and risk-based selection. Information from returns and related sources such as GSTR-1, GSTR-3B, GSTR-2B, and other available data may be used to identify possible mismatches. Practical Scenario: The ITC Mismatch Let’s take an example where a business claims an Input Tax Credit (ITC) of ₹5,00,000 in GSTR-3B and the invoices of the supplier as reflected in the GST system are only ₹4,00,000. In such situations, the discrepancy may be identified through system-based scrutiny. Where the return is selected for scrutiny under Section 61 read with Rule 99, the proper officer may issue Form GST ASMT-10 seeking explanation. The taxpayer may then reply in Form GST ASMT-11 if the discrepancy is accepted or disputed. This highlights a critical practical challenge: the recipient’s assessment is now inextricably linked to the supplier’s compliance. This system-based approach increases the importance of timely reconciliation of books, returns, and portal data to reduce the risk of discrepancies and further proceedings. In 2026, the GST portal is no longer just a filing site; it is a ‘Digital Panopticon’ a system where everything is visible. The Directorate General of Analytics and Risk Management (DGARM) is the brain behind this. The Rise of Rule 88C and 88D The government recently introduced Rule 88C (dealing with liability mismatches) and Rule 88D (dealing with ITC mismatches). Rule 88C: If your GSTR-1 (Sales) is significantly higher than your GSTR-3B (Tax Paid), you get an automated notice. You must either pay the difference or explain it. If you do neither, you are blocked from filing GSTR-1 for the next month. This is a ‘compliance-led-recovery’ model. Rule 88D: Similar to 88C, but for ITC. If you claim more ITC than what appears in your GSTR-2B, the system flags it. Case Study: The ‘Circular Trading’ Trap Consider a group of three companies: A, B, and C. A sells to B, B sells to C, and C sells back to A. No actual goods move, but ‘Invoices’ move to create artificial ITC. The AI Scrutiny: Today’s DGARM tools use ‘Network Analysis.’ They track the flow of ITC and identify ‘closed loops.’ In such cases, the ‘Best Judgment’ assessments issued under Section 63 are often accompanied by ‘Provisional Attachment’ of bank accounts under Section 83. This highlights the severity of modern assessment—it’s not just a paper demand; it has immediate financial consequences. The Supplier-Recipient Nexus: A Legal Conflict The most controversial aspect of contemporary assessment is Section 16(2) (aa) and (c). The law says a recipient can only get ITC if the supplier has actually paid the tax. • The Recipient’s Dilemma: How can a buyer in Mumbai know if a small supplier in Kerala has actually deposited the tax in the government treasury? Judicial Intervention: In Suncraft Energy Private Limited v. The Assistant Commissioner, the Calcutta High Court held that the department shouldn’t jump to the recipient without investigating the supplier. This ruling is a beacon of hope for honest businesses caught in the ‘Automated Scrutiny’ net. PART IV – CRITICAL DISCUSSION: CHALLENGES AND JUDICIAL TRENDS The transition from a manual to a digital assessment regime hasn’t been without friction. There are several ‘Grey Areas’ where the law and technology clash. 1. The Right to Personal Hearing: A Non Negotiable Pillar A recurring issue in GST assessments (especially under Section 62 and 73) is the ‘Omission of Personal Hearing.’ Officers often pass orders based on the ASMT-10 reply without calling the taxpayer for a discussion. • The Judicial Stand: Various High Courts (notably the Allahabad and Bombay High Courts) have repeatedly quashed assessment orders because a ‘Personal Hearing’ (PH) is a mandatory requirement under Section 75(4) if an adverse decision is contemplated. Takeaway: A taxpayer should always explicitly request a Personal Hearing in their ASMT-11 reply to protect their legal rights. 2. The ITC Reversal Horror: Retrospective Actions Often, the GST department cancels a supplier’s registration ‘retrospectively’ (e.g., cancelling a registration in 2026 effective from 2022). They then issue notices to all buyers who took ITC from that supplier in 2023 or 2024. • Practical Impact: This creates massive financial liabilities for businesses that did ‘due diligence’ at the time of purchase (the supplier was active then) but are now being punished for the supplier’s later disappearance. Developing Trend: The courts are beginning to lean towards a ‘Proof of Transaction’ test. If the buyer can produce the E-Way bill, transport receipt, and bank payment proof, the ITC shouldn’t be denied just because of a retrospective cancellation. 3. The ‘Reason to Believe’ vs. ‘Reason to Suspect’ In Summary Assessments (Section 64), the officer must have ‘evidence’ that revenue is at risk. However, ‘Reason to Believe’ is often confused with ‘Reason to Suspect.’ • Legal Standard: The Supreme Court has held that ‘Reason to Believe’ must be based on objective facts, not just a ‘hunch.’ If an officer issues a Summary Assessment just because a taxpayer is ‘newly registered,’ it is likely to be struck down by a writ court. 4. Classification Disputes: The ‘Cereal’ vs. ‘Snack’ Debate Assessment often turns into a war of HSN codes. For example, is a ‘Fryum’ a ‘Papad’ (0% GST) or a ‘Namkeen’ (12% GST)? The Assessment Trap: If a taxpayer self assesses at 0% and the officer (during scrutiny) thinks it’s 12%, the demand includes not just the 12% tax, but 18% interest and potentially a 100% penalty if ‘suppression’ is alleged. This makes the ‘Provisional Assessment’ route (Section 60) vital for any product that doesn’t fit perfectly into an HSN category. While the assessment framework is robust on paper, several practical difficulties persist. Ambiguity in Best Judgment: Under Section 62, best judgment assessment must be made on a rational basis using the material available to the officer. It cannot be arbitrary or mechanical. Where the statute requires notice and opportunity of hearing, failure to follow the prescribed procedure may invalidate the assessment. The ‘Vicious Cycle’ of Non-Compliance A key challenge is the cancellation of a taxpayer’s registration for non-filing. Failure to file may lead to proceedings under section 62 for best judgement assessment. But the practical effect will depend on the taxpayer’s registration status, notice history and the point in the proceedings. Tax authorities need to be more nuanced in their approach to break this cycle, balancing the need for recovery with the taxpayer’s capacity to correct past mistakes. PART V – CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS Assessment under GST is one of the mechanism which helps in compliance, revenue protection and uniform administration under GST regime. The move toward automated, data-driven scrutiny is inevitable but needs to be accompanied by a transparent and taxpayer- friendly resolution process. Summary of Recommendations: 1. Proactive Reconciliation: Taxpayers should adopt ‘continuous reconciliation’ models rather than monthly checks. 2. Standardization of Notices: The CBIC may consider further standardizing the grounds and risk parameters for scrutiny to improve consistency and reduce subjectivity in selection and communication of discrepancies. 3. Grace Periods for Technical Errors: Given the reliance on technology, minor clerical mismatches should trigger an ‘observation’ phase before a formal ‘notice’ phase. In conclusion, understanding the types of assessment is not just about legal compliance it is about risk management in a digital economy. REFERENCES AND BIBLIOGRAPHY Statutes: Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017; Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. Rules: CGST Rules, 2017 (notably Rules 88C, 88D, 99, and 100). Judicial Decisions: Suncraft Energy Private Limited v. The Assistant Commissioner (Calcutta High Court, 2023). M/s. Dy Beathel Enterprises v. State Tax Officer (Madras High Court, 2021). Union of India v. Bharti Airtel Ltd. (Supreme Court of India). Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: Sally Ncube Qualification: Student - Others Location: Kapurthala, Punjab Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Sally Ncube Mechanics of Supply and Efficiency of Input Tax Credit (ITC) February 23, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Delayed GSTR-3B Filing Cannot Bar ITC Without Section 16(5) Review: Calcutta HC September 23, 2026 Supplier Tax Default Condition for ITC Constitutionally Valid: Rajasthan HC September 23, 2026 Consolidated GST Notice for Multiple Years Quashed by Kerala HC September 23, 2026 GSTN emSigner Migration: Legal Impact of FIPS 140-3 in India September 23, 2026 Section 16(2)(c) of CGST Act: Supreme Court verdict final or GST Council surprise? September 22, 2026 GST Appeal Reserved for Decision Must Be Decided on Merits: Punjab and Haryana HC September 22, 2026