Summary: Owning a company in the United Arab Emirates can provide Indian entrepreneurs, consultants, technology professionals and family-business owners with access to international customers, regional banking, global logistics and a business-friendly operating environment, but an Indian resident establishing or acquiring a UAE company must consider India’s foreign-exchange framework alongside UAE law. The principal regulatory framework comprises the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, the Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022, the Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Regulations, 2022 and the Reserve Bank of India’s Master Direction on Overseas Investment. FEMA residence must be separately examined from income-tax residence, and ownership of most privately held UAE companies will ordinarily constitute Overseas Direct Investment. Resident individuals must consider the eligible foreign entity, bona fide business activity, prohibited and restricted activities, available Liberalised Remittance Scheme limit, designated AD bank, UIN, Form FC, valuation, permitted payment methods, evidence of investment and Annual Performance Report requirements. Compliance continues after incorporation and extends to additional funding, subsidiaries, round-tripping, investment back into India, repatriation, transfer, sale and liquidation. Separate Indian income-tax issues may include worldwide-income taxation, foreign-asset disclosure, foreign-source income, dividends, capital gains, transfer pricing, place of effective management and treaty matters, while the UAE company may have separate Corporate Tax, VAT, transfer-pricing and beneficial-ownership obligations. The article therefore examines the principal FEMA and related compliance considerations for an Indian resident establishing or acquiring a UAE company. Table of Contents▸ Introduction FEMA Residence Is Different From Income-Tax Residence What Constitutes Overseas Investment? When UAE Company Ownership Becomes ODI The Foreign Entity Must Generally Have Limited Liability Permitted ODI by a Resident Individual Meaning of a Bona Fide Business Activity The Liberalised Remittance Scheme Limit Tax Collected at Source Is Separate From FEMA Permission Can an Indian Resident Own 100% of a UAE Company? Restriction on Financial-Services Activities Subsidiaries and Step-Down Subsidiaries Round-Tripping and Investment Back Into India Prohibited Activities Restricted Countries and Jurisdictions A Designated AD Bank Must Be Used Unique Identification Number Documents Commonly Required by the Bank Pricing Guidelines Mode of Payment Evidence of Investment Annual Performance Report UAE Audit Exemption Does Not Automatically Remove APR Compliance Repatriation of Amounts Due Transfer, Sale and Liquidation Reporting Defaults Restrict Further Investment Late Submission Fee Restrictions Where the Investor Has Regulatory Defaults Funding the UAE Company After Incorporation Investment by an Indian Company Acquisition Through a UAE Nominee Acquiring a UAE Company Without Sending Money From India UAE Company Formed Before Returning to India Income-Tax Reporting Remains Separate Place of Effective Management Risk UAE Corporate Tax and Indian Ownership Practical Example: Indian Consultant Establishing a Dubai Company Practical Example: UAE Holding Company Investing Back Into India Common Mistakes Compliance Checklist Conclusion Show all 41 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Owning a company in the United Arab Emirates has become increasingly attractive to Indian entrepreneurs, consultants, technology professionals and family-business owners. A UAE company may provide access to international customers, regional banking, global logistics and a business-friendly operating environment. For a person who remains resident in India, however, incorporating or acquiring a UAE company is not merely a foreign company-formation exercise. The investment must also comply with India’s foreign-exchange framework. The principal rules are contained in: The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999; The Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022; The Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Regulations, 2022; and The Reserve Bank of India’s Master Direction on Overseas Investment. These provisions regulate how an Indian resident may establish, acquire, fund, manage, restructure and dispose of an interest in a foreign entity. A UAE trade licence may be valid under UAE law while the investment remains incorrectly structured or unreported under FEMA. Compliance must therefore be examined in both countries. FEMA Residence Is Different From Income-Tax Residence The first question is whether the proposed owner is a “person resident in India” for FEMA purposes. FEMA residence is not determined in exactly the same manner as tax residence under the Indian income-tax legislation. The income-tax system relies heavily on statutory day-count tests. FEMA considers physical presence but also gives importance to the purpose of a person’s stay, departure and intention. An individual who leaves India for employment, business or another purpose indicating an intention to remain outside India for an uncertain period may become a person resident outside India for FEMA purposes. Conversely, a person returning to India for employment, business or an indefinite stay may become a person resident in India. This means that: Indian citizenship does not automatically make someone a FEMA resident; A UAE residence visa does not automatically make someone a FEMA non-resident; Income-tax non-resident status does not conclusively determine FEMA status; and The same individual may have to be analysed differently under FEMA and income-tax law. The individual’s employment, family circumstances, business activities, travel, accommodation and intention should be reviewed before any overseas investment is made. What Constitutes Overseas Investment? The 2022 framework divides overseas investment principally into: Overseas Direct Investment, commonly called ODI; Overseas Portfolio Investment, commonly called OPI; and Financial commitment by an Indian entity. The classification matters because different eligibility conditions, limits and reporting requirements apply. When UAE Company Ownership Becomes ODI An investment by an Indian resident in the equity capital of an unlisted foreign entity is generally treated as ODI. Most privately held UAE companies are unlisted. Therefore, subscription to shares or ownership interests in a UAE mainland company, free-zone company or other privately held limited-liability entity will ordinarily constitute ODI. Investment in a listed foreign entity may also become ODI if the Indian investor: Acquires 10% or more of its paid-up equity capital; or Acquires control even though the equity holding is below 10%. Once an investment is classified as ODI because the investor held at least 10%, it generally continues to be treated as ODI even if the holding later falls below 10%, provided the investment is not transferred entirely. In practical terms, an Indian resident establishing a wholly owned Dubai company is making ODI, not a simple portfolio investment. The Foreign Entity Must Generally Have Limited Liability The overseas-investment framework defines a foreign entity as an entity formed, registered or incorporated outside India, including in an International Financial Services Centre in India, that has limited liability. For ordinary sectors, the liability of the Indian investor should therefore be clear and legally limited. UAE structures commonly described as limited-liability companies or free-zone limited-liability entities may satisfy this requirement, but the actual constitutional documents and applicable UAE legislation should be reviewed. The commercial name used by an incorporation agent is not enough. A special exception exists for entities engaged in a strategic sector, where the limited-liability condition may be treated differently under the rules. Permitted ODI by a Resident Individual A resident individual may generally make ODI by investing in the equity capital of a foreign entity engaged in a bona fide business activity. The investment may arise through methods permitted under the overseas-investment framework, including: Subscription at the time of incorporation; Acquisition of existing equity; Rights issue; Bonus shares; Capitalisation of an amount due from the foreign entity, where permitted; Swap of securities, subject to compliance by both sides; Sweat equity; Employee stock ownership arrangements; Inheritance; or Other permitted modes under the applicable schedule. The transaction must comply not only with the method of acquisition but also with the investor’s eligibility, remittance limit, business activity, pricing, reporting and documentation requirements. Meaning of a Bona Fide Business Activity The foreign entity must generally conduct a bona fide business activity that is lawful in both India and the UAE. A valid UAE trade licence is relevant, but it does not independently establish FEMA compliance. The Indian bank processing the ODI may review: The exact business activity; The UAE licence; Constitutional documents; Ownership structure; Source of funds; Proposed subsidiaries; Projected operations; Regulatory approvals; and Whether the activity is prohibited or restricted under Indian law. A UAE company should not be created with a vague or nominal activity merely to hold funds or acquire assets unrelated to its stated commercial purpose. The incorporation documents, ODI filing and actual operations should describe the business consistently. The Liberalised Remittance Scheme Limit A resident individual’s overseas investment is generally subject to the Liberalised Remittance Scheme. Under the LRS framework, a resident individual may remit up to USD 250,000 during an Indian financial year for permitted current-account and capital-account transactions, subject to applicable conditions. The limit is not available separately for every UAE company. It is an overall annual limit covering the individual’s eligible LRS transactions during that financial year. For example, if an individual has already used part of the limit for foreign securities, property, education or another permitted remittance, only the remaining amount may be available for investment in the UAE company. The investor should therefore calculate all LRS utilisation before fixing the UAE company’s share capital or agreeing to an acquisition price. Family members cannot be inserted as nominal shareholders solely to multiply remittance capacity while one person is the real investor. Each remitter must make a genuine investment from the remitter’s own eligible funds and must comply with reporting and beneficial-ownership requirements. Tax Collected at Source Is Separate From FEMA Permission An outward remittance under LRS may attract tax collection at source under the applicable Indian income-tax provisions. TCS does not represent an additional FEMA investment limit, nor does payment of TCS make an otherwise impermissible overseas investment valid. It is a tax-collection mechanism that operates alongside the foreign-exchange rules. The applicable rate, threshold and credit position should be checked when the remittance is made because income-tax provisions may change independently of the FEMA framework. Can an Indian Resident Own 100% of a UAE Company? FEMA does not generally prohibit a resident individual from owning 100% of an eligible UAE foreign entity. However, full ownership creates ODI and requires compliance with all applicable conditions, including: The foreign entity must be eligible; The business activity must be bona fide; The investment must be within the available LRS limit; The remittance must pass through an authorised channel; A designated AD bank must be used; A Unique Identification Number must be obtained; The investment must be reported; Evidence of ownership must be submitted; and Annual reporting must be completed where applicable. A person should not transfer funds directly to a UAE incorporation agent and attempt to regularise the ODI only after the company has been formed. Restriction on Financial-Services Activities A resident individual is generally not permitted to make ODI in a foreign entity engaged in financial-services activity, except where a specific provision or permitted structure applies. This restriction requires careful examination because UAE activity descriptions can be broad. Businesses involving financial intermediation, lending, regulated investment, insurance, fund management, payment services, brokerage or similar activities may fall within the financial-services category. Terms such as “investment company,” “financial consultancy,” “wealth advisory,” “fintech” or “holding company” should not be assessed only by their marketing description. The actual licensed activity and operating model are important. Special provisions may apply to eligible investment in an IFSC in India, but those provisions should not be assumed to cover an ordinary company incorporated in the UAE. An Indian resident proposing to establish a UAE financial-services, investment or regulated fintech company should obtain a written regulatory assessment before committing funds. Subsidiaries and Step-Down Subsidiaries The rules impose an important restriction where a resident individual makes ODI in a foreign entity that has, or later acquires, a subsidiary or step-down subsidiary. A resident individual should not assume that a UAE holding company can freely be used to create a multilayer international group. Under the current framework, where a resident individual has made ODI without control in a foreign entity and that foreign entity subsequently acquires or establishes a subsidiary or step-down subsidiary, the resident individual cannot later acquire control in the foreign entity. Where a proposed investment would give the resident individual control, the foreign entity’s existing or intended subsidiary structure must be examined before investment. This issue commonly arises where a UAE company is intended to own: Another UAE mainland company; A UAE free-zone subsidiary; A company in a third country; An Indian subsidiary; An e-commerce operating entity; An intellectual-property company; or A special-purpose vehicle. The group chart should be finalised before filing the ODI documents. Adding subsidiaries later without checking FEMA can change the permissibility of the structure. Round-Tripping and Investment Back Into India A UAE company owned by an Indian resident may wish to establish or acquire an Indian company. Such arrangements are often described as round-tripping. The 2022 framework does not impose an absolute prohibition on every structure involving an overseas entity investing back into India. However, a person resident in India cannot make financial commitment in a foreign entity that invests or has invested in India if the arrangement results in a structure containing more than two layers of subsidiaries. Each subsidiary layer must be counted carefully, and exemptions available under Indian company law should not be assumed to apply automatically without confirming the specific FEMA provision. A round-trip structure also requires scrutiny under: India’s foreign direct investment policy; Sectoral caps; Entry-route conditions; Beneficial-ownership rules; Pricing requirements; Companies Act provisions; Income-tax law; General anti-avoidance rules; Place-of-effective-management principles; Transfer pricing; and Anti-money-laundering requirements. Creating a UAE company merely to route Indian money back into India can attract substantial regulatory and tax concern, particularly where the structure lacks an independent commercial purpose. Prohibited Activities A person resident in India is not permitted to make ODI in a foreign entity engaged in certain prohibited activities. These include: Real-estate activity; Gambling in any form; and Financial products linked to the Indian rupee without specific approval from the Reserve Bank. For this purpose, prohibited real-estate activity generally concerns buying and selling real estate or trading in transferable development rights. It does not necessarily include the development of townships, construction of residential or commercial premises, roads or bridges for sale or lease. The distinction is fact-specific. A UAE company that buys completed properties solely for resale may require a different FEMA analysis from a genuine construction or development business. Similarly, a company acquiring property for its own operational use may not necessarily be engaged in prohibited real-estate activity. The proposed licence, business plan and source of revenue must be considered together. Restricted Countries and Jurisdictions Overseas investment cannot be made in a foreign entity located in a country or jurisdiction identified as non-cooperative by the Financial Action Task Force, or in another jurisdiction specifically restricted by the Government of India. The UAE itself is not generally prohibited for overseas investment. Nevertheless, transactions involving sanctioned persons, restricted territories, opaque ownership arrangements or high-risk counterparties can face enhanced bank review. Compliance with FEMA does not remove obligations under sanctions screening, export controls, anti-money-laundering laws or bank policies. A Designated AD Bank Must Be Used ODI transactions must generally be routed through an authorised dealer Category-I bank in India. The investor must designate an AD bank for the particular foreign entity. Transactions associated with the relevant Unique Identification Number should ordinarily pass through that designated bank. Where more than one Indian resident invests in the same UAE company, all Indian investors connected with that UIN may be required to route the relevant transactions through the same designated AD bank. Choosing the bank early is important. Different banks may request different supporting documents based on their compliance procedures, even though the underlying FEMA rules are the same. The investor should discuss the transaction with the bank before: Signing the UAE incorporation documents; Paying share capital; Purchasing an existing company; Advancing money; Capitalising unpaid fees; or Agreeing to deferred consideration. Unique Identification Number A person making ODI must obtain a Unique Identification Number for the foreign entity through the designated AD bank. Form FC and the prescribed documents are generally submitted to the bank for creation of the UIN. The UIN must be obtained before the outward remittance or acquisition of equity capital, whichever occurs first. A UIN does not constitute approval of the investment by the Reserve Bank. It means that the transaction has been taken on record for regulatory reporting and monitoring. The investor remains responsible for the legality and accuracy of the investment. Documents Commonly Required by the Bank The precise document list depends on the investor, UAE jurisdiction, acquisition method and designated bank. The bank may request: PAN and identity documents; FEMA residential-status declaration; Source-of-funds evidence; Liberalised Remittance Scheme declaration; Form A2; Form FC; UAE company-formation application; Trade-name reservation; Trade licence; Certificate of incorporation; Memorandum and articles of association; Shareholder register; Share certificate; Business plan; Group structure; Valuation certificate, where applicable; Purchase agreement; Board or shareholder resolutions; Details of directors and beneficial owners; Confirmation of the company’s business activity; Details of subsidiaries or step-down subsidiaries; and Regulatory approvals for the proposed activity. The bank may also seek clarification where the UAE company has minimal capital, broad activity descriptions, a nominee arrangement or links with another Indian business. Pricing Guidelines Acquisition or transfer of equity capital in a foreign entity must comply with the applicable pricing guidelines. The transaction price should generally be determined on an arm’s-length basis. The authorised dealer bank must be satisfied with the valuation in accordance with an internationally accepted pricing methodology. The valuation requirement becomes particularly important where: An Indian resident purchases an existing UAE company; Shares are transferred between related parties; Intellectual property is contributed; Consideration is deferred; A company is restructured; Shares are sold to another Indian resident; or The investment is disposed of to a non-resident buyer. Using a nominal value stated on a UAE licence does not necessarily establish the fair value of the equity being transferred. The valuation approach and supporting documents should be agreed with the designated bank before completion. Mode of Payment Payment for overseas investment must be made through a permitted mode. The overseas-investment regulations allow payment through banking channels and certain other specifically recognised methods. Cash settlement, informal value transfer, unexplained third-party remittance or use of an unrelated person’s funds can create serious violations. The following practices should be avoided: Paying a UAE formation consultant in cash without a documented trail; Sending share capital from another person’s account; Routing funds through an unrelated overseas company; Using unreported cryptocurrency to acquire shares; Adjusting personal expenses against share capital without documentation; Using hawala or an informal remittance arrangement; or Describing equity investment as a consultancy payment. The payment trail should clearly identify the investor, recipient, purpose, foreign entity and corresponding shares or ownership interest. Evidence of Investment A resident investor who acquires equity capital constituting ODI must submit evidence of the investment to the designated AD bank within six months from the relevant date prescribed under the regulations. Evidence may include: Share certificate; Certificate of ownership; Updated shareholder register; Constitutional document identifying the owner; or Another document recognised under applicable UAE law. If evidence is not submitted within the prescribed period, the investor may be required to repatriate the remitted funds, subject to the regulatory framework. A payment receipt from an incorporation agent is not necessarily sufficient evidence that equity has been issued. Annual Performance Report A person who has made ODI is generally required to submit an Annual Performance Report for the foreign entity through the designated AD bank. The APR is ordinarily due by 31 December each year. Where the accounting year of the foreign entity ends on 31 December, the report is generally due by 31 December of the following year. The report ordinarily includes financial and operational information concerning the foreign entity and may also record: Changes in ownership; Creation or acquisition of subsidiaries; Alteration in the shareholding pattern; Restructuring; Profit or loss; Repatriation; Dividend; and Other prescribed information. The APR is generally based on audited financial statements. Where the investor does not have control and the host jurisdiction does not require a statutory audit, the regulations provide a limited route for using unaudited financial statements certified in the prescribed manner. A reporting exemption may apply where the resident holds less than 10% of the equity capital without control and has made no other financial commitment apart from equity. An exemption may also apply where the foreign entity is under liquidation. A resident individual who owns or controls a private UAE company should ordinarily expect APR compliance to apply. UAE Audit Exemption Does Not Automatically Remove APR Compliance Some UAE companies may not be required by the relevant authority to file audited financial statements. That does not automatically eliminate Indian APR obligations. Where the Indian investor controls the UAE company, the relaxation for unaudited accounts may not be available merely because the UAE authority does not insist on an audit. This is often overlooked by owners of small free-zone companies. They complete the UAE licence renewal but fail to prepare the financial information required for Indian ODI reporting. FEMA compliance should therefore be included in the company’s annual accounting calendar. Repatriation of Amounts Due A person resident in India who has made ODI must generally realise and repatriate amounts receivable from the foreign entity within the prescribed period. This can include: Dividends; Fees and royalties; Loan repayment, where permitted; Consideration from the sale of shares; Disinvestment proceeds; and Net realisable value received on liquidation. Under the overseas-investment regulations, relevant receivables, disinvestment proceeds and liquidation distributions are generally required to be repatriated within 90 days from the applicable due date, transfer date or actual distribution date. The investor should not leave sale proceeds indefinitely in a personal UAE account without checking the repatriation requirement. Transfer, Sale and Liquidation A resident individual may transfer an overseas investment in accordance with the rules, subject to conditions. Before selling or liquidating a UAE company, the investor should review: Eligibility of the buyer; Pricing guidelines; Valuation; Outstanding receivables; Pending APRs; Other reporting defaults; UAE liquidation requirements; Repatriation of proceeds; Capital-gains tax; Transfer of intellectual property; Release of personal guarantees; and Closure of the UIN record. Disinvestment must generally be reported within 30 days of receiving the proceeds. A UAE licence cancellation does not, by itself, close the Indian ODI compliance file. The liquidation, receipt and repatriation of proceeds and final regulatory reporting must also be completed. Reporting Defaults Restrict Further Investment A person who has delayed a required ODI filing may be prevented from making further financial commitment or transferring the investment until the delay is regularised. This can interrupt: Additional share-capital remittances; Business expansion; Ownership changes; Sale of the company; Restructuring; and Creation of permitted security. Historical reporting should therefore be reviewed before undertaking a new transaction involving the same foreign entity. Late Submission Fee Certain delays in submitting evidence or prescribed reports may be regularised by paying a Late Submission Fee within the period allowed under the regulations. The LSF mechanism is an administrative facility. It should not be treated as advance permission to ignore reporting deadlines. It also does not validate an investment that was fundamentally prohibited or ineligible. A delayed report and an unlawful transaction are different compliance issues. Where the LSF period is no longer available, compounding or another regulatory process may need to be examined. Restrictions Where the Investor Has Regulatory Defaults A person resident in India may require a no-objection certificate before making a financial commitment or undertaking disinvestment if the person: Has an account classified as a non-performing asset; Is classified as a wilful defaulter; Is under investigation by a financial-sector regulator; or Is under investigation by an enforcement or investigative agency as specified under the framework. The certificate may be required from the relevant lender bank, regulatory body or investigative agency. A pending investigation does not always mean that overseas investment is permanently impossible, but the prescribed process cannot be bypassed. Funding the UAE Company After Incorporation Company incorporation is only the beginning. UAE companies may later require working capital, additional equity, guarantees or shareholder support. A resident individual should not assume that every form of funding is permitted merely because the person already owns the company. Additional equity investment will ordinarily consume the available LRS limit and require appropriate reporting. Resident individuals do not enjoy the same broad financial-commitment permissions available to Indian entities. Loans, guarantees and other funding methods must be checked separately. A payment described in the company’s accounts as a “shareholder loan” may not be permissible simply because UAE law allows it. Before sending funds, the investor should identify whether the amount represents: Equity capital; Reimbursement; Payment for services; A loan; A guarantee obligation; Purchase consideration; or Capitalisation of a genuine receivable. Misclassification can create FEMA, tax and accounting problems in both jurisdictions. Investment by an Indian Company The position differs where the UAE company is owned by an Indian company rather than an individual. An Indian entity may generally make ODI and other permitted financial commitments subject to the applicable framework. Its total financial commitment in all foreign entities ordinarily must not exceed 400% of its net worth as stated in the last audited balance sheet, unless the transaction falls under a specific exception or approval route. Financial commitment can include more than equity. Depending on the circumstances, it may include: ODI; Debt; Corporate guarantees; Performance guarantees; Bank guarantees backed by the Indian entity; Pledge; and Charge over assets. The Indian entity may generally extend debt or non-fund-based commitment only where the prescribed conditions are met, including requirements concerning ODI and control in the foreign entity. This framework should not be applied to a resident individual as if the individual were an Indian company. Their permissions and limitations are different. Acquisition Through a UAE Nominee Some UAE structures may involve nominee shareholders, local agents or corporate service providers. An Indian resident should distinguish between a legitimate service arrangement and an arrangement that conceals beneficial ownership. If the Indian resident provides the funds, controls the rights and bears the commercial risk, the FEMA analysis will generally focus on the substantive ownership rather than only the name appearing on a UAE document. Nominee arrangements may create problems relating to: ODI reporting; Beneficial-ownership disclosure; UAE corporate registers; Banking KYC; Income-tax reporting; Anti-money-laundering compliance; Succession; and Enforcement of shareholder rights. The true ownership structure should be documented and disclosed as required in both jurisdictions. Acquiring a UAE Company Without Sending Money From India ODI can arise even where no immediate outward remittance is made from India. For example, an Indian resident may acquire shares through: Capitalisation of a permitted receivable; Swap of securities; Gift; Inheritance; Deferred consideration; Sweat equity; or Retention of an overseas company interest after a change in residential status. Each method has separate conditions. The absence of a bank remittance does not necessarily mean that FEMA reporting is unnecessary. The investor should determine whether the acquisition is ODI, OPI or another permitted holding and complete the appropriate filings. UAE Company Formed Before Returning to India An individual may lawfully establish and own a UAE company while being a person resident outside India and later return to India. FEMA contains provisions that generally permit a person to continue holding foreign assets acquired while resident outside India or inherited from a person resident outside India. However, future transactions after the person becomes resident in India require careful analysis. These may include: Additional capital contributions; Shareholder loans; Guarantees; Acquisition of more shares; Establishment of subsidiaries; Restructuring; Sale; Reinvestment of proceeds; and Repatriation. The original acquisition history should be preserved to demonstrate that the company was lawfully acquired while the individual was resident outside India. Continuing to hold the company and making a fresh overseas investment after returning to India are not necessarily the same transaction. Income-Tax Reporting Remains Separate FEMA permission does not determine the Indian income-tax treatment of the UAE company or its owner. An Indian resident may need to consider: Taxation of worldwide income; Foreign-asset disclosure; Foreign-source income reporting; Dividend taxation; Salary or directors’ fees; Capital gains; Foreign tax credit; Transfer pricing; Place of effective management; Controlled business activities; General anti-avoidance provisions; and Tax treaty eligibility. A resident and ordinarily resident individual may be required to disclose the UAE company interest in the applicable foreign-asset schedules of the Indian income-tax return. Failure to disclose a foreign asset can have consequences separate from any FEMA reporting default. Place of Effective Management Risk A UAE company may be incorporated abroad but treated as an Indian tax resident if its place of effective management is in India under the applicable income-tax legislation. This risk may arise where: The owner lives and works in India; Strategic decisions are made in India; UAE directors act only on instructions; Contracts are negotiated and approved in India; Banking is controlled from India; The UAE company has no genuine personnel or premises; Accounting and management are performed entirely in India; or The UAE entity exists mainly on paper. FEMA compliance does not protect a company from the place-of-effective-management rules. Owners should ensure that the legal structure, operational substance and actual decision-making process are aligned. UAE Corporate Tax and Indian Ownership A UAE company may also be subject to UAE Corporate Tax, depending on its legal status, income, activities and available relief. Indian ownership does not exempt the company from: UAE Corporate Tax registration; Return filing; Transfer-pricing rules; Record retention; VAT obligations; Economic-substance expectations; Beneficial-owner reporting; or Sector-specific regulation. Likewise, paying UAE Corporate Tax does not eliminate Indian FEMA reporting. The two systems address different obligations. Practical Example: Indian Consultant Establishing a Dubai Company Assume an individual living in India wants to establish a wholly owned Dubai consultancy company. The proposed initial capital is USD 40,000, and the company will provide management-consulting services to international customers. Before incorporation, the individual should consider: 1. Whether the person is resident in India under FEMA; 2. Whether the UAE entity has limited liability; 3. Whether the consultancy activity is bona fide and lawful in both countries; 4. Whether the activity could be treated as a restricted financial service; 5. Whether the USD 40,000 investment is within the individual’s remaining LRS limit; 6. Which AD bank will handle the ODI; 7. Whether Form FC and UIN formalities will be completed before remittance; 8. How the equity will be valued and documented; 9. Whether the UAE company will have any subsidiary; 10. How the share certificate or ownership evidence will be issued; 11. Who will prepare the annual financial statements and APR; 12. Whether additional working capital will be required; 13. Where the business will be managed; and 14. How the UAE company and income will be disclosed in India. If the individual simply pays an incorporation agent using a personal card and addresses FEMA reporting later, the company may be validly incorporated in Dubai while the Indian overseas-investment process remains incomplete. Practical Example: UAE Holding Company Investing Back Into India Assume an Indian resident establishes a UAE holding company. The UAE company then proposes to acquire shares in an Indian operating company. The arrangement should be reviewed for: ODI eligibility; Subsidiary restrictions applicable to resident individuals; The two-layer rule; Indian FDI conditions; Sectoral restrictions; Beneficial ownership; Pricing; Source of funds; Tax substance; Round-tripping concerns; Transfer pricing; and Reporting in both countries. The fact that each individual transaction appears lawful in isolation does not establish that the combined structure is compliant. Common Mistakes Frequent FEMA mistakes involving UAE companies include: Believing that Indian citizenship alone determines FEMA residence; Assuming that a UAE visa automatically creates non-resident status; Incorporating first and approaching the AD bank later; Remitting incorporation funds without obtaining a UIN; Treating ownership in an unlisted UAE company as portfolio investment; Ignoring the overall LRS limit; Using a family member’s remittance without genuine ownership; Investing in a restricted financial-services activity; Creating subsidiaries without reviewing the resident-individual restrictions; Using a UAE company to invest back into India without checking the layer rules; Acquiring a property-trading company without examining the real-estate prohibition; Paying through cash, cryptocurrency or an unrelated third party; Failing to submit ownership evidence within six months; Missing the Annual Performance Report; Assuming that no UAE audit means no APR requirement; Leaving sale or liquidation proceeds outside India; Making further investment while earlier filings remain overdue; Treating a shareholder loan as automatically permitted; Ignoring foreign-asset disclosure in the Indian return; and Managing the UAE company entirely from India without considering tax residence. Compliance Checklist Before an Indian resident acquires or establishes a UAE company, the following should be confirmed: FEMA residential status of the investor; Classification as ODI or OPI; Legal form and limited liability of the UAE entity; Bona fide nature of the activity; Absence of a prohibited or restricted business; Eligibility of the investor; Available LRS limit; Source of funds; Proposed ownership percentage; Control rights; Existing and proposed subsidiaries; Any investment back into India; Group-layer restrictions; Selection of the designated AD bank; Form FC documentation; UIN allotment; Pricing and valuation; Permitted payment route; Issuance of equity; Submission of investment evidence; Annual Performance Report; Repatriation of receivables; Foreign-asset and income-tax disclosure; UAE Corporate Tax and VAT obligations; and Place of effective management and operational substance. Conclusion An Indian resident can generally establish or acquire a UAE company, including a wholly owned company, but the investment must be structured under India’s overseas-investment framework. The transaction will usually constitute ODI because privately held UAE companies are unlisted. The resident individual must consider the LRS limit, eligible business activities, subsidiary restrictions, pricing, mode of payment, UIN, evidence of investment and annual reporting. The compliance obligation continues after incorporation. Additional funding, new subsidiaries, investment back into India, sale, liquidation and repatriation can each trigger further requirements. A UAE company should therefore be planned as a cross-border investment from the beginning. Coordinating the UAE incorporation with the Indian AD bank, tax adviser and regulatory documentation can prevent a legally valid UAE company from becoming a FEMA compliance problem in India. ***** Disclaimer: This article is intended solely for general educational and informational purposes. It does not constitute legal, tax, investment, banking or professional advice. FEMA rules, RBI directions, LRS limits, tax provisions, bank procedures and regulatory interpretations may change. The treatment of a transaction depends on its facts, ownership structure, business activity and the residential status of the parties. Readers should examine the current law and obtain professional advice before making an overseas investment. References Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999: https://www.indiacode.nic.in/ Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022, Notification No. G.S.R. 646(E), dated 22 August 2022. Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Regulations, 2022, Notification No. FEMA 400/2022-RB, dated 22 August 2022: https://www.rbi.org.in/ Reserve Bank of India, Master Direction – Overseas Investment: https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_ViewMasDirections.aspx?id=12710 Reserve Bank of India, Master Direction – Liberalised Remittance Scheme: https://www.rbi.org.in/ Reserve Bank of India, Master Direction – Reporting under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999: https://www.rbi.org.in/ Income-tax Act, 2025, provisions concerning residence, foreign income, reporting and taxation of overseas interests: https://www.incometax.gov.in/ India–UAE Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement and synthesised text incorporating the Multilateral Instrument: https://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/Pages/international-taxation/dtaa.aspx Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under FEMA Author Info Name: Mandeep Singh Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: KPM GLOBAL Location: Dubai, Dubai Articles Published: 18 View full profile → More from Mandeep Singh Indian Tax Residency After Moving to UAE: Rules, Day Counts & Common Mistakes September 12, 2026 India–UAE DTAA: Tax Residence, PE, Dividends, Capital Gains and FTC September 12, 2026 Moving Your Business from Canada to Dubai: What It Actually Looks Like April 4, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Fema / RBI RBI FAQs on Asset Reconstruction Companies (ARCs) September 12, 2026 RBI Proposes SOP for Suspected Money Mule Bank Accounts September 12, 2026 RBI FAQs on Master Directions on Priority Sector Lending Guidelines September 12, 2026 RBI Priority Sector Lending Third Amendment Directions, 2026 – ANBC Exemption Cut-off Revised to August 31, 2026 September 11, 2026 RBI Issues Second Amendment Directions for Local Area Banks on CRR and SLR September 11, 2026 Investing in Nepal in 2026: A Practical Guide for Indian Businesses & Their Advisors September 11, 2026