#AD The accounting and finance industry is increasingly looking for early-career professionals who can combine technical knowledge with analytical, digital and communication skills. ACCA’s 2026 employer insights highlight this shift, with firms focusing on professionals who can apply their knowledge in practical, technology-driven work environments. Table of Contents▸ ACCA: A Globally Relevant Qualification From B.Com (Hons.) to ACCA Starting ACCA Alongside a Career in Audit Connecting ACCA Learning with Practical Experience From Audit Associate to ACCA Member The Role of Flexible Learning Support From a Career Choice to a Professional Milestone Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); ACCA: A Globally Relevant Qualification ACCA combines professional accountancy knowledge with practical experience, ethics and employability skills. Thus, making it relevant to roles across accounting, audit, financial reporting and finance. Its global presence is another key feature, with more than 257,900 members and 530,100 future members across 180 countries. The ACCA duration can vary from one candidate to another depending on exemptions, examination progress and the time taken to complete the practical experience requirement. This flexibility also allows candidates to pursue the qualification alongside their academic studies or employment. This combination of professional learning and practical exposure can help early-career professionals build skills that align with evolving employer expectations. From B.Com (Hons.) to ACCA For Samyak Jain, the decision to pursue ACCA came during the final semester of his B.Com (Hons.) from Delhi University. As he approached graduation, he began exploring professional qualifications that could help him provide a clear path into the accounting and finance sector. Samyak researched the available options himself and came across the qualification while exploring what he could do after his graduation, as his degree alone could not solely help him fulfil his dream. The research helped him understand how ACCA could complement his degree with the relevant professional knowledge in accounting, audit and finance. The qualification is a combination of ACCA PER (practical experience), examinations, and its international recognition. So, he considered it a relevant option as his next step after graduation. He was advised to enroll in the best ACCA coaching in Delhi for industry-relevant, insightful learning. Samyak began his ACCA journey in March 2023, and soon after that, within 2 to 3 months, he started gaining experience as well. It was not a qualification pursued in isolation, but a period in which his professional studies soon began alongside his entry into the workplace. Within the same year, he would take his first steps into a full-time audit career, creating the foundation for the journey that eventually led to his ACCA membership. Starting ACCA Alongside a Career in Audit Samyak’s ACCA journey soon became closely connected with his professional career. After starting the qualification in March 2023, he joined KPMG in May 2023 as an Audit Associate, beginning his full-time career in audit. Working at a global professional services firm gave him early exposure to audit processes and client-facing work while he continued developing his professional knowledge through ACCA. He found concepts from financial reporting and financial management relevant to aspects of his audit work, while other subjects remained more academic in nature. Balancing a full-time job with ACCA preparation is challenging, but edZeb, Delhi, helped him manage both simultaneously with their personalised mentorship and expert guidance from faculty who have over 75+ years of collective experience. It also meant adapting his study routine around work commitments. During busy periods, Samyak used recorded classes when he could not attend live sessions and followed up on his doubts later. The faculty remained available over text or a phone call as well, at even odd times. This approach helped him continue his qualification without stepping away from his professional responsibilities. Connecting ACCA Learning with Practical Experience As Samyak progressed through the ACCA journey, his working experience gave him an opportunity to view some of the concepts from a practical perspective. He found financial reporting and financial management were particularly relevant to his work, helping him connect concepts studied for the qualification with situations encountered during audit assignments. He also found that the journey strengthened his confidence in communicating what he knew. With academic learning and workplace exposure developing together, Samyak gradually became more comfortable applying his knowledge and explaining his understanding in a professional setting. From Audit Associate to ACCA Member During his time at KPMG, he moved from the role of Audit Associate to Audit Executive, reflecting his continued growth within the organisation while he worked towards completing the requirements for becoming a member. After completing his exams and the required practical experience, Samyak completed the remaining membership formalities and became an ACCA Member. The milestone marked the culmination of a journey that had combined professional study with hands-on experience from the early stages of his career. For Samyak, the qualification also brought greater confidence in communicating his knowledge and approaching professional responsibilities. His journey demonstrates how a professional qualification such as ACCA can be pursued alongside employment, allowing academic learning and workplace experience to develop together. The Role of Flexible Learning Support He began coaching, but after he got the job, flexibility became an important part of managing his preparation alongside his job. In that case, edZeb’s specially curated LMS access helped him watch recorded classes and take quizzes and tests to stay on track. It allowed him to continue learning at his own pace even when work commitments prevented him from attending live sessions. He could revisit the sessions later and raise his doubts during subsequent classes. He also sought additional academic support when he found a particular subject challenging, communicating his difficulty and working with the faculty to address it. This personalised approach, combined with the flexibility of recorded learning, supported him through the different stages of his ACCA preparation. From a Career Choice to a Professional Milestone Samyak Jain’s journey pursuing ACCA with BCom and gaining experience as an Audit Executive at KPMG reflects a career path where professional education and workplace experience developed alongside each other. His experience also highlights the value of maintaining continuity in learning while taking on the demands of a full-time role. What began as an independent search for the right professional qualification during his final semester at Delhi University eventually became a defining part of Samyak Jain’s early career. Today, his journey reflects the progression from academic learning to professional practice. His experience also highlights the role of structured learning and consistent academic support in helping professionals stay on track while building their careers. For edZeb, Samyak’s achievement adds to its focus on career-oriented professional education. Through its Knowledge Integrated with Corporate Needs (KICN) approach, mentorship and flexible learning support, edZeb continues to focus on helping learners connect professional qualifications with practical workplace expectations. You can visit their official site at www.edzeb.com or connect with their counselling representatives at 8263 900 900 to enquire more about such finance and accounting qualifications that take your career global. ***** Disclaimer: This is a sponsored/promotional article published on TaxGuru for informational purposes only. The information, claims, statistics, personal experiences, career achievements and statements regarding ACCA, edZeb and KPMG have been provided by the advertiser and have not been independently verified by TaxGuru. Publication does not constitute endorsement or recommendation of any qualification, coaching institute or service. Individual academic and career outcomes may vary, and no employment or career advancement is guaranteed. Readers should independently verify all claims, course details, fees, accreditation and eligibility requirements before making any decision. TaxGuru accepts no responsibility or liability for the accuracy of the claims or for any loss arising from reliance on this content. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Audit Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in CA, CS, CMA Two Letters, One Responsibility – Are We Protecting Value of “CA” in Bank Audits? October 9, 2026 ICAI Board Can Close Misconduct Complaint on Plausible View: Delhi HC October 7, 2026 Tax Technology Transformation: How Automating Compliance Protects CFOs from Audit Risks October 7, 2026 ICSI Merit-cum-Means Assistance Scheme 2026: Apply by 25 November October 7, 2026 Analysis of Notifications and Circulars for Week Ending 4th October 2026 October 7, 2026 Analysis of Notifications and Circulars for Week Ending 27th September 2026 October 5, 2026