Summary: E-way bill compliance under GST should be treated as an integral part of the goods dispatch process rather than merely a portal formality. The requirement is linked to movement of goods and may arise not only on sales but also in cases such as job work, repairs, testing, exhibition, replacement, return of goods, stock transfers and movement for own use. Businesses should examine the nature and value of the movement, whether it is intra-State or inter-State, applicable exemptions and State/UT-specific requirements. They should also distinguish between e-invoicing and e-way bill compliance, as the two serve different purposes. Responsibility for generation and updation should be clearly allocated among the supplier, recipient and transporter. Particular attention should be given to consistency between the invoice or delivery challan and Part A and Part B of the e-way bill, including GSTIN, document number and date, place of delivery, HSN, value and vehicle or transport document details. Businesses should also monitor the validity period and consider extension requirements before expiry where transportation is delayed. Cancellation should not be regarded as a universal method for correcting errors after movement has commenced. A structured pre-dispatch checklist can substantially reduce errors, interception issues, detention proceedings and unnecessary disputes. Introduction The e-way bill has become a routine part of goods movement under GST. For many businesses, generating an e-way bill is treated as just another step before dispatch. In practice, however, mistakes in the e-way bill can create unnecessary problems during transportation, particularly when the details in the e-way bill do not agree with the invoice, delivery challan or actual movement of goods. The important point is that e-way bill compliance is not restricted to normal sales transactions. Goods may also move for job work, repairs, testing, exhibition, replacement, return of goods, stock transfer, own use and several other commercial reasons. Therefore, before moving goods, the business should first identify why the goods are being moved, who is causing the movement and what document supports that movement. Table of Contents▸ E-Way Bill is not limited to a sale of goods. The ₹50,000 threshold should not be considered in isolation. A proper compliance check should consider: E-Invoice and E-Way Bill serve different purposes. Who should generate the e-way bill? Accuracy of Part A and Part B is equally important. For example: Keep an eye on the validity period. Cancellation is not a substitute for correcting every mistake. What happens when there is a discrepancy? A practical checklist before dispatch. The real objective should be error-free movement. Show all 12 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); E-Way Bill is not limited to a sale of goods. One common misunderstanding is that an e-way bill is required only when goods are sold. That is not the correct way to look at the requirement. The focus is on the MOVEMENT OF GOODS and whether the movement falls within the scope of the e-way bill provisions. For example, a business may send goods to a job worker, move machinery for repair, send products for testing or demonstration, transfer goods between its locations, return rejected goods to a supplier, or move goods to an exhibition. In such cases, even though there may not be a conventional sale at the time of movement, the e-way bill requirement may still arise, subject to the applicable provisions and exemptions. The ₹50,000 threshold should not be considered in isolation. For movements covered by the e-way bill provisions, the general rule applies where the value of the consignment exceeds ₹50,000, subject to the prescribed exemptions and applicable State/UT requirements. For intra-State movement, businesses should also check the applicable provisions of the concerned State or Union Territory, since specific requirements or relaxations may apply in certain situations. Accordingly, simply applying a blanket “₹50,000 rule” to every transaction may not always give the correct answer. A proper compliance check should consider: Nature of the movement. Value of the consignment. Whether the movement is intra-State or inter-State. Applicable exemptions and Specific requirements prescribed for the relevant State/UT. E-Invoice and E-Way Bill serve different purposes. Another area where confusion is common is the relationship between e-invoicing and e-way bills. Both systems are part of GST’s technology-based compliance mechanism, but they perform different functions. An e-invoice primarily relates to the reporting and authentication of specified invoices, whereas the e-way bill is connected with the movement of goods. Therefore, generation of an e-invoice should not be treated as automatically completing the e-way bill requirement wherever an e-way bill is otherwise required. Businesses should have separate checks in their ERP or dispatch process so that both requirements are appropriately addressed. Who should generate the e-way bill? Responsibility for generating the e-way bill depends on the circumstances of the movement. In a normal transaction, the person causing the movement will generally have the primary responsibility. However, the actual process can differ depending on whether transportation is arranged by the consignor, consignee or transporter and whether the goods are moved through road, rail, air or vessel. For road transportation, where the registered person has furnished the required information and the goods are handed over to a transporter, the transporter may generate the e-way bill based on the information furnished by the registered person, where applicable. This is particularly relevant for businesses that assume that the transporter will always take care of the e-way bill. The safer approach is to clearly define responsibility between the accounts, dispatch and logistics teams before the goods leave the premises. Accuracy of Part A and Part B is equally important. An e-way bill contains transaction-related information as well as transportation details. Part A broadly captures information relating to the supplier, recipient, document, value, HSN and reason for transportation, while Part B contains transportation-related details such as vehicle or transport document information, as applicable. A frequent practical problem is that the invoice is correct but the e-way bill contains a different detail. For example: Incorrect invoice number. Wrong GSTIN. Incorrect place of delivery. Wrong vehicle number. Incorrect document date. Mismatch in taxable/value details or Incorrect consignee information. Such errors may appear small at the time of dispatch but can become significant if the consignment is intercepted during transportation. A simple pre-dispatch verification between the invoice and e-way bill can therefore save considerable time and avoid unnecessary disputes. Keep an eye on the validity period. Generating the e-way bill is only the first step. The validity period also needs to be monitored. For normal cargo, the general framework provides one day for movement up to 200 km and one additional day for every additional 200 km or part thereof. Separate provisions apply in specified cases such as Over Dimensional Cargo and certain multimodal shipments. Businesses should therefore avoid calculating validity merely on the basis of the expected delivery date. Unexpected events can affect transportation schedules. Vehicle breakdown, accidents, natural calamities, trans-shipment delays and other circumstances may result in the goods remaining in transit beyond the original validity. The portal provides a mechanism for extension within the prescribed time windowThe extension facility can be used within the specified period around expiry, with relevant details such as the current location and remaining distance being furnished. The practical lesson is simple: do not wait until the e-way bill has already expired before checking whether an extension is required. Cancellation is not a substitute for correcting every mistake. An e-way bill can generally be cancelled within the prescribed periodwhere it has been generated incorrectly or the underlying movement does not take place. However, cancellation should not be viewed as a universal solution for every error discovered after the goods have started moving. Once transportation has commenced, the facts of the case and the nature of the error become important. Depending upon the circumstances, the appropriate correction or fresh documentation may need to be considered rather than simply cancelling the existing e-way bill. This is why it is much better to identify errors at the dispatch stage rather than after the vehicle has already left the premises. What happens when there is a discrepancy? Not every error in an e-way bill automatically means that the transaction is fraudulent or that tax has been evaded. The courts have examined the nature of the discrepancy, surrounding circumstances and whether there was any intention to evade taxin several e-way bill disputes. For instance, the incorrect consignee details and typographical errors where the courts considered the nature of the mistake and the surrounding facts. This does not mean that businesses can take e-way bill compliance lightly. Rather, it highlights the importance of maintaining proper supporting documents and being able to explain genuine mistakes with reference to the actual transaction. A practical checklist before dispatch. For businesses handling regular movement of goods, a short internal checklist can be extremely useful. Before the vehicle leaves, verify: 1. Transaction – Is the movement a supply or for another reason? 2. Document – Is the correct invoice, bill of supply, delivery challan or another applicable documentavailable? 3. Value – Has the consignment value been considered correctly? 4. GSTIN – Are the supplier and recipient details correct? 5. Place of delivery – Does the e-way bill agree with the actual destination? 6. Goods – Are the description, HSN and value consistent with the supporting document? 7. Transport details – Is the vehicle/transport document information correctly entered? 8. Validity – Will the e-way bill remain valid for the expected journey? 9. Responsibility – Has it been clearly established whether the supplier, recipient or transporter is responsible for generation/updation? 10. Supporting records – Can the business produce the relevant invoice, delivery challan and other documents if the consignment is verified during transit? These checks can be incorporated into the dispatch process itself instead of being performed only by the tax team later. The real objective should be error-free movement. For most businesses, e-way bill compliance is not a complicated exercise. Problems generally arise because the process is treated as a routine portal activity rather than as part of the overall movement documentation. From a practical perspective, however, the best compliance control is still a simple one: the details in the invoice, e-way bill, transport documents and actual movement of goods should tell the same story. If that consistency is maintained before dispatch, many avoidable notices, detention proceedings and explanations can be prevented. For businesses with frequent movement of goods, e-way bill compliance should therefore be treated as part of the dispatch control system, and not merely as another GST formality. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under E-way BillGoods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: Amit D Harkhani Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Amit D Harkhani & Associates Location: Thane, Maharashtra Articles Published: 38 View full profile → More from Amit D Harkhani GST Implications on Reimbursement Received on Cancellation of Export Order March 4, 2026 GST on Services Provided to Panchayats and Municipalities January 8, 2026 ITC Reclaim Ledger & RCM Ledger – What Professionals Must Watch Now January 3, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Section 74 GST Cannot Apply Without Fraud or Suppression: Madras HC October 7, 2026 Section 16(2)(c) of GST Act 2017: Constitutional Validity Statutory Evolution & ITC denial Limits October 7, 2026 Toll Plaza Data Not Statutory Test for ITC: GSTAT Kolkata October 7, 2026 Pending Rule 96(10) GST Proceedings Cannot Survive Omission: Karnataka HC October 7, 2026 Mere Ineligible ITC Availment Not Suppression for Section 74: GSTAT Thiruvananthapuram October 7, 2026 GST Refund Cannot Be Rejected on Vague SCN Stating Only “Other”: Gujarat HC October 7, 2026