RBI Updates Digital Rupee FAQs: Retail, Programmable and Wholesale CBDC Explained Summary: The Reserve Bank of India has updated its Frequently Asked Questions on the Digital Rupee (e₹) as on October 1, 2026, covering Retail CBDC, Programmable CBDC, Wholesale CBDC and the CBDC and Asset Tokenisation (CAT) Sandbox. Digital Rupee is India’s Central Bank Digital Currency and represents the digital form of physical Rupee, issued by RBI at par with physical currency. Retail e₹ can be stored and transacted through wallets provided by participating banks and non-banks for person-to-person and person-to-merchant payments, including through CBDC and compatible UPI QR codes. The FAQs clarify that e₹ wallets carry no minimum-balance requirement or usage charges, wallet balances do not earn interest, and e₹ is legal tender and a liability of RBI. Currently, 19 banks offer CBDC wallets. RBI also explains Programmable CBDC, under which government, corporate sponsors or users can specify conditions for utilisation based on parameters such as expiry date, geographical location and merchant categories. Wholesale CBDC is presently being piloted with 16 participants and has four stated use cases, including settlement of Government Securities, call-money transactions, tokenised Certificates of Deposit and tokenised Corporate Bonds. The CAT Sandbox provides a secure, non-live environment for testing CBDC-enabled financial services, interoperability, programmability and asset-tokenisation use cases. Digital Rupee (e₹) – FAQs (Updated as on October 01, 2026) Usage of e₹ is currently being piloted in the country in the Retail (public) and Wholesale (bank and other institutions) segments. Table of Contents▸ A. Retail CBDC 1. What is Digital Rupee? 2. How can e₹ be held and used? 3. What is an e₹ Wallet? 4. Are e₹ wallets safe? 5. Which mobile operating system platform does e₹ wallet currently support? 6. How is Digital Rupee created and issued? 7. What do the e₹ pilots aim to achieve? 8. Who can use e₹? 9. Can Digital Rupee be transacted from one’s bank account outside banking hours? 10. Is there any minimum balance required to open/maintain an e₹ wallet? 11. Is savings account mandatory for retail customers to use e₹? 12. Why do I see e₹ with different denominations in the wallet? 13. How can one transact without having the required denomination or change? 14. Are decimal or fractional value payments supported in the e₹? 15. Are there any charges/fees for using e₹? 16. Whom can one reach out to for support/disputes related to e₹? 17. Will interest be paid on the ₹ balances in the e₹ wallet? 18. Whether e₹ is legal tender? 19. Is there any difference between e₹ and UPI? 20. What is offline feature of e₹? 21. Which are the banks offering e₹ wallets to users? B. Programmable CBDC 22. What is the programmability feature of e₹? 23. What is a Programmable CBDC wallet? 24. How do I know whether I have received General-purpose CBDC or Programmable CBDC? C. Wholesale CBDC 25. What is a Wholesale CBDC and how does it differ from Retail CBDC? 26. What are the benefits of e₹-W? 27. Who are the participants in the e₹-W pilot? 28. What are the use cases of e₹-W and what are the benefits? D. CBDC and Asset Tokenisation (CAT) Sandbox 29. What is the CBDC and Asset Tokenisation (CAT) Sandbox? 30. How can entities access the CAT Sandbox? Show all 34 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); A. Retail CBDC 1. What is Digital Rupee? Ans. Digital Rupee or e₹, is India’s Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). It is the digital form of India’s physical currency, the Rupee (₹). e₹ is issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in digital form and e₹ is at par with the physical currency, offering features similar to physical cash like convenience of use, guarantee of RBI, finality of settlement, etc. e₹ is stored in the user’s digital wallet and can be used to receive / send money, and / or make payment for transactions, just like any physical ₹ note. The logo and tagline for India’s CBDC is as under: 2. How can e₹ be held and used? Ans. e₹ can be held and transacted through e₹ wallets offered by banks and non-banks for Person-to-Person (P2P) payments or Person-to-Merchant (P2M) transactions. One can start using the e₹ wallet by downloading the e₹ app from the Play Store or the App Store and by following the App instructions. Detailed instructions on using the e₹ wallet can be checked with the banks and non-banks providing the wallet. Payments to merchants can be made by scanning either the CBDC QR code or the UPI QR code available at the respective merchant location. 3. What is an e₹ Wallet? Ans. e₹ wallet is a digital wallet that can be opened on one’s mobile phone / device. e₹ wallet stores the Digital Rupee, similar to the physical wallet / purse that stores the physical currency. e₹ wallets are being currently provided by banks and non-banks, which are part of the retail CBDC pilot. 4. Are e₹ wallets safe? Ans. e₹ wallets are safe and secure. There is a robust cyber-security framework to ensure that e₹ is kept secure in the user’s wallet. The e₹ stored in the e₹ wallet is safe even if the mobile device on which the e₹ wallet is installed is lost. The e₹ wallet can be recovered using the same phone number / SIM on a new mobile device. 5. Which mobile operating system platform does e₹ wallet currently support? Ans. e₹ wallet is available and supported both on Android and iOS mobile devices. 6. How is Digital Rupee created and issued? Ans. Creation and issuance of retail e₹ is identical to the arrangement for issuance of physical currency i.e., RBI creates e₹ and issues them to banks and non-banks electronically. Banks and non-banks, thereafter, are responsible for facilitating onboarding and opening e₹ wallets for their customers on their mobile phones. The e₹ issuance, distribution, and usage within the retail segment (for members of the public) is live with effect from December 2022. The users and merchants of identified pilot banks and non-banks across the country can use e₹. 7. What do the e₹ pilots aim to achieve? Ans. The e₹ pilots are a limited scale, controlled roll-out, to test the technology, architecture, scalability, application, features, use-cases and acceptance of e₹. The pilots aim to test the robustness of the entire process of e₹ creation, distribution, usage, etc. 8. Who can use e₹? Ans. Currently, users and merchants of identified pilot banks and non-banks across the country can use e₹. These customers can download the e₹ app of the bank or non-bank, register themselves, and start using the e₹ wallet to participate in the pilot. 9. Can Digital Rupee be transacted from one’s bank account outside banking hours? Ans. Yes. e₹ can be loaded / redeemed / transferred from / to one’s bank account to / from the e₹ wallet 24 hours x 7 days a week. 10. Is there any minimum balance required to open/maintain an e₹ wallet? Ans. No. There is no minimum balance required to open/maintain an e₹ wallet. 11. Is savings account mandatory for retail customers to use e₹? Ans. Currently, opening of e₹ wallets is linked to user’s savings bank accounts. This linkage facilitates frictionless user onboarding and obviates the need for separate KYC requirement. Based on the feedback and use cases, new models of user on-boarding are also being explored. For example, based on use cases of Programmable CBDC, the on-boarding criteria for eligible beneficiaries of a Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme receiving government benefits through Programmable CBDC / or similar use cases in corporate segment, has been modified. Such users can get themselves on-boarded on CBDC App through Mobile and / or Aadhaar Number authentication. For such users, it is not mandatory to have a savings bank account. 12. Why do I see e₹ with different denominations in the wallet? Ans. For ease of use, e₹ is available in the same denominations as physical currency. This provides the users with the same familiarity and convenience as with usage of physical currency notes. 13. How can one transact without having the required denomination or change? Ans. The feature of providing the requisite change is available in all the e₹ wallets. For example, if one desires to purchase a ₹15 item from a merchant but has only ₹20 denomination available in the e₹ wallet, she / he can enter ₹15 in the amount field while sending the money; ₹15 will automatically be credited to the merchant while the balance ₹5 will remain in the e₹ wallet. 14. Are decimal or fractional value payments supported in the e₹? Ans. Yes, the e₹ supports payments involving decimal or fractional values. Transactions can be made for any amount up to two decimal places, similar to conventional currency transactions conducted through digital payment modes. 15. Are there any charges/fees for using e₹? Ans. There are no charges or fees associated with using e₹ or e₹ wallets. 16. Whom can one reach out to for support/disputes related to e₹? Ans. Users can raise disputes via their e₹ wallet app or reach out to their customer care centre. 17. Will interest be paid on the ₹ balances in the e₹ wallet? Ans. Given the cash-like features of e₹, there is no interest payable on the wallet balances. 18. Whether e₹ is legal tender? Ans. In terms of Section 26 of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Act, 1934, every e₹ bank note shall be legal tender at any place in India in payment or on account for the amount expressed therein and is guaranteed by the Central Government. e₹, being a digital form of the ₹ bank note, is legal tender and is the liability of Reserve Bank of India. 19. Is there any difference between e₹ and UPI? Ans. e₹ is a digital form of ₹ whereas UPI is a means of payment. In addition to being used for payments, e₹ also serves as a ‘store of value’, i.e., e₹ can be withdrawn from one’s bank account and kept separately in the e₹ wallet. In the case of Person-to-Person (P2P) and Person-to-Merchant (P2M) payments made at any CBDC QR, the transactions happen between two e₹ wallets, and are settled instantaneously without passing through user’s bank accounts. For P2P and P2M payments, the functionality of scanning a UPI QR from an e₹ app has also been enabled. In such cases, the settlement will be based on the UPI settlement timelines. 20. What is offline feature of e₹? Ans. The offline feature of e₹ enables the user to transact in locations with limited or no internet connectivity. This is expected to mirror the advantages of physical cash, making it a reliable solution for usage in remote areas. Currently, different solutions are being explored. 21. Which are the banks offering e₹ wallets to users? Ans. Currently, 19 banks are offering CBDC wallets. The name and the link for downloading the apps is mentioned below: Pilot Banks Name of the App Android iOS Axis Bank Axis Mobile Digital Rupee Android iOS Bank of Baroda Bank of Baroda Digital Rupee Android iOS Bank of India Bank of India Digital Rupee Android iOS Bank of Maharashtra eRupee by Bank of Maharashtra Android iOS Canara Bank Canara Digital Rupee Android iOS Federal Bank Federal Bank Digital Rupee Android iOS HDFC Bank HDFC Bank Digital Rupee Android iOS ICICI Bank Digital Rupee by ICICI Bank Android iOS IDBI Bank IDBI eRupee Android iOS IDFC First Bank IDFC First Bank Digital Rupee Android iOS Indian Bank Indian Bank Digital Rupee Android iOS IndusInd Bank Digital Rupee by IndusInd Bank Android iOS Karnataka Bank Karnataka Bank Digital Rupee Android iOS Kotak Mahindra Bank Digital Rupee by Kotak Bank Android iOS Kotak Bank (Mobile banking App) Android# iOS# Punjab National Bank PNB Digital Rupee Android iOS SBI eRupee by SBI Android iOS UCO Bank UCO Digital Rupee Android iOS Union Bank of India Digital Rupee by UBI Android iOS Yes Bank YES PAY Next: UPI, CBDC, Bills (Mobile banking App) Android* iOS* *In case of Yes Bank, CBDC wallets may be accessed using their unified application (link above), by following the steps as below: (i) Login into the App. (ii) Click “My Digital Rupee Wallet”. (iii) User will land in CBDC home page where user can initiate CBDC transactions (Load Money, Pay via mobile, Scan QR and Redeem option). # In case of Kotak Bank, CBDC wallets may be accessed using their mobile banking application (link above), by following the steps as below: (i) Login into the App and on home page click ‘Menu’ option in the footer. (ii) Click on ‘Explore products’ – Under Pay section click on ‘Digital Rupee’ (iii) User will land in CBDC home page. B. Programmable CBDC 22. What is the programmability feature of e₹? Ans. The programmability feature allows the sponsor entity (government / corporate) or user to ensure that the funds in the CBDC wallets are used only for the specified purpose. It can be programmed on different parameters like expiry date, geo-location, merchant category codes, merchant VPA, etc. 23. What is a Programmable CBDC wallet? Ans. A Programmable CBDC wallet is a digital wallet used for Government or corporate use cases where the e₹ is issued with predefined conditions relating to its utilisation as mentioned in Question 22 above. Such wallets are designed to facilitate targeted payments for specified purposes, while enabling beneficiaries to receive and utilise e₹ through a simple digital interface. 24. How do I know whether I have received General-purpose CBDC or Programmable CBDC? Ans. The CBDC application clearly indicates the nature of the e₹ available in the wallet. Where the e₹ has been issued under an Programmable CBDC use case, the relevant conditions applicable to such funds, if any, will be displayed to the user through the application. C. Wholesale CBDC 25. What is a Wholesale CBDC and how does it differ from Retail CBDC? Ans. Wholesale CBDC (e₹-W) is designed for use by financial institutions and intermediaries, primarily to streamline inter-bank settlements and large-value transactions. It operates within a restricted ecosystem and enhances the efficiency, speed, and security of wholesale payment systems by using the functionalities of programming and smart contracts. Wholesale CBDC focuses on improving the financial system’s infrastructure and reducing settlement risks. 26. What are the benefits of e₹-W? Ans. e₹-W has the potential to transform the settlement systems for financial transactions and make them more efficient and secure. It leverages on the programmability and smart contract features of the platform and reduces settlement risk. Being the digital form of central bank money, e₹-W can act as the settlement anchor for tokenised financial market ecosystem. 27. Who are the participants in the e₹-W pilot? Ans. Currently, there are 16 participants in the e₹-W pilot, which includes banks and non-banks. 28. What are the use cases of e₹-W and what are the benefits? Ans. Presently, there are four use cases of e₹-W – (i) funds settlement of secondary market transactions in Government Securities, (ii) settlement of inter-bank lending and borrowing in call money market, (iii) tokenised issuances and settlements of Certificates of Deposit, and (iv) tokenised issuance and settlement of Corporate Bonds. Settlement in central bank money is expected to reduce transaction costs by pre-empting the need for settlement guarantee infrastructure or for collateral to mitigate settlement risk and benefitting from the programmability and smart contracts functionalities of e₹-W. D. CBDC and Asset Tokenisation (CAT) Sandbox 29. What is the CBDC and Asset Tokenisation (CAT) Sandbox? Ans. The CBDC and Asset Tokenisation (CAT) Sandbox aims to foster innovation in payments, settlements, and CBDC-enabled financial services across retail, wholesale, cross-border, and asset tokenisation domains. It provides entities with a secure, non-live environment to test interoperability, programmability, and new use cases. The CAT Sandbox is designed to generate valuable insights for policy formulation, technical design refinement, and strengthening operational resilience. 30. How can entities access the CAT Sandbox? Ans. Interested entities can submit their detailed request to the FinTech Department, RBI for accessing the CAT Sandbox by email at [email protected]. Based on the assessment and due diligence of the application and other required information by the FinTech Department, a decision will be made on granting access to the applicant entity for the CAT Sandbox. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under FAQsRBI Notificationsreserve bank of india Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Fema / RBI RBI Allows Delegation of ATM Cassette Swap Monitoring to Executive Committee October 1, 2026 RBI Master Circular 2026 on Credit Facilities to SCs & STs October 1, 2026 All Saturdays Are Not Bank Holidays: PIB Debunks Fake Gazette Notification October 1, 2026 NBFC Rs. 20 Lakh SARFAESI Threshold Does Not Bind Assignee Bank: Calcutta HC October 1, 2026 Bank Cannot Be Forced to Reconsider Rejected OTS Proposal: Calcutta HC October 1, 2026 RBI Fraud Tagging: Directors Cannot Be Automatically Declared Fraudsters Without Due Process September 30, 2026