Summary: Mining remains one of the most safety-critical sectors, where occupational safety is directly connected with the competence of management, physical and medical fitness of workers, emergency preparedness and continuous training. The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions (Central) Rules, 2026 (“OSH Rules”) introduce a dedicated and detailed framework for mines under Chapter XI, Part IV, comprising Rules 107 to 176. This part brings together provisions covering qualification and appointment of mine managers, applicability of the Code to certain mines, medical examinations, medical fitness and appeals, working-hour exemptions for specified mine personnel, mine rescue infrastructure, rescue-trained personnel, emergency preparedness, vocational and refresher training, training centres and training officers, instructors and trainers, and training certification and records. The framework effectively moves mine safety from being viewed only as an operational responsibility to a structured governance system involving management accountability, medical surveillance, emergency response and competency management. The Rules place emphasis on qualified managerial leadership, worker participation through Safety Committees, dedicated Safety Officers, medical surveillance, rescue capability, structured vocational and refresher training, training for new technology and changed job risks, and systematic documentation. Mine operators are accordingly required to consider an integrated OSH Mine Compliance Audit covering management governance, medical surveillance, emergency preparedness, competency management and documentation. The overall compliance framework is presented as four interconnected lines of defence: competent leadership, a fit workforce, a competent workforce and emergency resilience. Table of Contents▸ OSH Rules, 2026: Strengthening Managerial Accountability, Medical Fitness, Rescue Preparedness and Workforce Competency 1. No Mine Can Operate Without a Qualified Manager 2. The Rules Recognise Limited Categories of Mines for Exemption Medical Fitness and Occupational Health 3. Medical Examination Becomes a Core Mine-Employment Requirement 4. Medical Examination Must Be Conducted by Competent Authorities 5. Medical Examination Has Defined Notice Requirements 6. Medical Records Must Follow the Worker 7. Women Workers: Specific Medical Examination Safeguard 8. A Medical Fitness Decision Can Be Appealed 9. An Unfit Worker Cannot Simply Continue in the Same Role Safety Governance and Worker Participation 10. Safety Committee in Mines: Worker Participation Becomes Institutionalised 11. Safety Officer: A Dedicated Safety Governance Role Mine Rescue and Emergency Preparedness 12. Mine Rescue: Preparedness Before the Emergency 13. Rescue-Trained Workforce Is a Specific Requirement 14. Selection for Rescue Training Is Not Arbitrary 15. Communication and Mine Rescue Mapping 16. Rescue Equipment and Management Become Employer Responsibilities Vocational Training and Competency Management 17. Vocational Training Begins Before Deployment 18. Refresher Training at Least Once in Four Years 19. New Technology Requires Advance Training Planning 20. Additional Training After Long Absence, Serious Accident or Job Change 21. Training Centres and Training Officers 22. Trainers Become Accountable for Trainee Safety 23. Training Records and Certification Matter What Should Mine Operators Do Now? 1. Management Governance 2. Medical Surveillance 3. Emergency Preparedness 4. Competency Management 5. Documentation A New Way of Looking at Mine Compliance 1. Competent Leadership 2. Fit Workforce 3. Competent Workforce 4. Emergency Resilience Conclusion Show all 40 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); OSH Rules, 2026: Strengthening Managerial Accountability, Medical Fitness, Rescue Preparedness and Workforce Competency A Practical Review of Chapter XI, Part IV (Mines) of the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions (Central) Rules, 2026 Mining remains one of the most safety-critical sectors, where occupational safety is directly connected with the competence of management, physical and medical fitness of workers, emergency preparedness and continuous training. The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions (Central) Rules, 2026 (“OSH Rules”) introduce a dedicated and detailed framework for mines under Chapter XI, Part IV, comprising Rules 107 to 176. This part brings together provisions covering: qualification and appointment of mine managers; applicability of the Code to certain mines; medical examinations; medical fitness and appeals; working-hour exemptions for specified mine personnel; mine rescue infrastructure; rescue-trained personnel; emergency preparedness; vocational and refresher training; training centres and training officers; instructors and trainers; and training certification and records. The framework effectively moves mine safety from being viewed only as an operational responsibility to a structured governance system involving management accountability, medical surveillance, emergency response and competency management. 1. No Mine Can Operate Without a Qualified Manager Rule 107 establishes a fundamental requirement: no mine can be opened, re-opened or worked unless it has a duly appointed manager possessing the prescribed qualification. The qualification requirement is linked to the type and scale of the mine. For example, the Rules differentiate between: belowground coal mines; opencast coal mines; belowground metalliferous mines; opencast metalliferous mines; mines having both opencast and underground workings; and oil mines. For coal and metalliferous mines, the required Manager’s Certificate of Competency varies depending on the average output or material handled. For oil mines, the Rules prescribe specified engineering/science qualifications together with substantial experience in management and supervision of oil-mining operations. The Rules subsequently place several safety, training and operational responsibilities on the manager. Therefore, appointment of a technically qualified and competent manager becomes a fundamental compliance control. 2. The Rules Recognise Limited Categories of Mines for Exemption Rule 108 identifies certain categories of mines to which most provisions of the Code do not apply, subject to specified conditions. One category covers excavation undertaken purely for prospecting purposes where, among other conditions: not more than 20 persons are employed on any one day; the excavation does not exceed six metres in depth, or fifteen metres in the case of coal; and the excavation does not extend below the superjacent ground. Certain opencast extraction activities involving materials such as ordinary sand, building stone, slate, road metal, earth, limestone and specified other minerals are also covered by the exemption subject to prescribed conditions, including limits on depth, manpower and use of explosives. Importantly, once an establishment becomes a mine, the employer is required to notify the Inspector-cum-Facilitator electronically within seven days. The Central Government may also direct that the provisions of the Code apply to such a mine subject to specified conditions. Medical Fitness and Occupational Health 3. Medical Examination Becomes a Core Mine-Employment Requirement One of the strongest provisions under Part IV relates to medical fitness. Rule 109 requires the employer of every mine to arrange: 1. Initial medical examination of every person seeking employment in a mine; and 2. Annual periodical medical examination of persons employed in a mine. The examination is required to follow the standards prescribed in Form IX. Where a dust-related disease is suspected, the medical examining authority may require medical or X-ray examinations at more frequent intervals. This is significant for occupational health governance because mining exposure can create long-term health risks that may not become immediately visible. 4. Medical Examination Must Be Conducted by Competent Authorities The examining authority must be a qualified medical practitioner employed by the mine, assigned by an employer of a group of mines, or a Government Medical Officer. The examining authority must also have appropriate occupational-health training, including recognised training in the International Labour Organisation’s classification of chest radiographs. This makes the medical examination framework more than a routine fitness certificate. It is intended to support occupational health surveillance specific to mining risks. 5. Medical Examination Has Defined Notice Requirements The Rules prescribe specific notice periods. For an initial medical examination, the employer must provide at least seven days’ prior written notice to the person concerned. For a periodical medical examination, the manager must provide at least twenty days’ prior notice. The examining authority is also required to receive relevant previous medical certificates. 6. Medical Records Must Follow the Worker Rule 114 requires medical examination records, including medical history and job details reflecting the occupational dust exposure profile, to be retained by the mine manager during the period of employment and for five years thereafter. Where the worker subsequently joins another mine, the previous manager is required to provide the medical certificates when requested by the manager of the new mine. This is an important provision from an occupational-health perspective. It recognises that a worker’s exposure history can extend across employers and mines. 7. Women Workers: Specific Medical Examination Safeguard Rule 116 provides that a woman employee should be medically examined by a female qualified medical practitioner. Where a female practitioner is unavailable, examination by a male qualified medical practitioner is permitted in the presence of another woman. This is a specific procedural safeguard that mine operators should incorporate into their medical-examination protocols. 8. A Medical Fitness Decision Can Be Appealed The Rules provide an appellate mechanism where a worker is declared unfit for employment in a mine, a category of mine or a specified mining operation. The person may appeal within 30 days of receiving the medical certificate and request re-examination by an appellate medical board. The employer/manager is required to forward the appeal within the prescribed period, and the appellate board is constituted with an Inspector-cum-Facilitator as convener and qualified medical practitioners. This is important because medical unfitness can have a direct impact on a worker’s livelihood. The Rules therefore create a structured process rather than leaving the decision without a review mechanism. 9. An Unfit Worker Cannot Simply Continue in the Same Role Where a person is declared medically unfit, the Rules restrict continued employment in the mine, category of mine or specified operation after the prescribed period unless an appeal has been filed. However, where the medical authority considers that the disability will not seriously interfere with the normal discharge of duties, it may recommend continuation for a period not exceeding six months to allow the condition to be cured or controlled and the worker to undergo another examination. The cost of medical examination is generally borne by the employer, subject to the specific exception prescribed for an appellate re-examination resulting in a finding of unfitness. Safety Governance and Worker Participation 10. Safety Committee in Mines: Worker Participation Becomes Institutionalised The OSH Rules provide for a Safety Committee in mines with equal representation of employer and workers, subject to the prescribed maximum strength. For the management side, the mine manager acts as Chairman, supported by nominated officials/competent persons and the Safety Officer or senior-most designated official as Secretary. Worker representatives are selected through the prescribed mechanism, with adequate representation of women workers. The Rules also provide for representation from mining, electrical and mechanical disciplines. The Committee’s role is not merely advisory. Its functions include: discussing unsafe conditions and practices; considering safety measures before commencement of new mining areas or installations; reviewing accident and dangerous-occurrence investigations; developing safety campaigns; providing a forum for occupational-safety communication; discussing SOPs for equipment and operations; and reviewing the Safety Management Plan. This represents an important shift towards participative safety governance. 11. Safety Officer: A Dedicated Safety Governance Role The Rules require a Safety Officer in mines where 100 or more workers are ordinarily employed, on the prescribed scale. The qualifications differ depending upon whether the mine is a coal mine, metalliferous mine or oil mine. The Safety Officer’s responsibilities include: assisting the mine manager on safety matters; ensuring implementation of an emergency plan; visiting different parts of the mine; engaging with workers on safety issues; investigating accidents and dangerous occurrences; analysing accident statistics; identifying sources of danger; conducting safety education; supporting vocational training; checking compliance with the Code and Rules; and promoting safe practices. The role therefore extends beyond inspection. It becomes a continuous safety assurance function. Mine Rescue and Emergency Preparedness 12. Mine Rescue: Preparedness Before the Emergency Rules 123 onwards establish a detailed framework for mine rescue infrastructure. The Chief Inspector-cum-Facilitator may require or permit belowground mines to establish rescue stations. In appropriate circumstances, common rescue stations may be established for mines belonging to more than one employer. A rescue station is required to have a superintendent, instructors and a rescue brigade of at least 18 rescue-trained persons. For certain belowground mines employing more than 100 persons below ground and without a rescue station within the prescribed radius, a rescue room is required. 13. Rescue-Trained Workforce Is a Specific Requirement Rule 139 requires a belowground mine employing more than 100 persons to have at least five rescue-trained persons readily available at the surface at any time. Where more than 500 persons are ordinarily employed below ground, the prescribed scale becomes one rescue-trained person for every 100 persons or part thereof. The Rules also prescribe accommodation arrangements and facilities for summoning rescue-trained personnel. This requires mine operators to consider rescue capability while planning manpower. It is not enough to have a rescue station; the organisation must have trained and available people capable of using it. 14. Selection for Rescue Training Is Not Arbitrary The Rules prescribe eligibility criteria for persons selected for rescue training. Among other requirements, the person must: be between 21 and 40 years of age; possess a valid first-aid certificate; have sufficient underground experience; be medically fit for rescue work; and be considered suitable for work with breathing apparatus. This provides a structured competency filter for emergency-response personnel. 15. Communication and Mine Rescue Mapping The Rules also recognise that rescue operations depend on reliable information and communication. Every mine is required to have appropriate communication with the rescue room/rescue station, preferably through wireless or telephone communication. Belowground mines are also required to maintain updated rescue tracings showing critical information including: ventilation systems; air currents; ventilation controls; fire-fighting equipment; water dams; pumping stations; telephone and ambulance stations; storage of inflammable materials; and haulage and travelling roadways. In an emergency, accurate information can be as important as rescue equipment. 16. Rescue Equipment and Management Become Employer Responsibilities The employer is required to establish, maintain and ensure proper functioning of the rescue room or rescue station, appoint the required personnel and provide necessary rescue equipment and apparatus. Where assistance is obtained from another rescue facility during an emergency, the employer is required to pay the prescribed cost of the rescue services and facilities used. The Rules therefore place clear accountability on the mine operator for maintaining rescue capability. Vocational Training and Competency Management 17. Vocational Training Begins Before Deployment Rules 157 onwards introduce a comprehensive training architecture. Every mine must have a training scheme covering, among other things: initial training; refresher training; training for new technology or equipment; training following changes in work procedures; competency assessment; assessment of prior learning; identification of training needs; appointment of competent trainers; and maintenance and audit of training records. The most important principle is contained in Rule 158: A person must receive the required training before being employed in the mine. This reinforces the concept that competence precedes deployment. 18. Refresher Training at Least Once in Four Years Rule 159 requires every person employed in a mine to undergo refresher training at least once every four years, subject to the power of the Chief Inspector-cum-Facilitator to modify the interval. The Rules also provide that refresher training should ordinarily be arranged during normal working hours on a full-day release basis. For mine operators, refresher training should therefore form part of the regular manpower and production calendar. 19. New Technology Requires Advance Training Planning Where new technology, equipment or a new system of work is introduced, the employer must prepare and submit a training module at least 60 days before its introduction. Workers who will operate the new technology or equipment must undergo training in accordance with the approved training scheme. This is particularly relevant as mining operations increasingly incorporate: automation; advanced machinery; digital monitoring; remote operations; and new safety systems. The compliance expectation is clear: Technology deployment and workforce competency must move together. 20. Additional Training After Long Absence, Serious Accident or Job Change The Rules also require training before employment where a person: returns after an absence exceeding one year; returns after involvement in a serious accident or dangerous occurrence that could have threatened life or safety; or is re-employed in a different job. This is a significant practical control. A worker’s previous experience does not automatically establish current competence for a changed risk environment. 21. Training Centres and Training Officers Every mine is required to provide and maintain an adequate training centre, subject to provisions permitting common training centres for multiple mines or approval of centres established under another law. Every training centre must have appropriate staff, equipment and facilities. A designated Training Officer is responsible for managing the training function. The Training Officer must: organise and supervise training; recognise current competency and prior learning; ensure delivery against prescribed modules; maintain training records; report progress to the mine manager; and maintain records of practical training. This brings training governance closer to the model of a formal competency-management system. 22. Trainers Become Accountable for Trainee Safety Practical training is required to be conducted under the direct supervision of an experienced person authorised by the mine manager. The trainer is responsible for the safety of trainees and must ensure that trainees understand: the hazards inherent in the job; safe working practices; escape routes; and applicable emergency response procedures. This is a particularly important provision because it establishes that training itself must be conducted safely. 23. Training Records and Certification Matter The Rules require systematic documentation of training. The instructor must maintain training records and report trainee progress to the Training Officer. On successful completion of prescribed training, the trainee is assessed and issued a training certificate. The mine manager countersigns the certificate after being satisfied about successful completion. Training certificates are retained by the mine management during employment and returned to the worker upon termination. Thus, training records become important evidence of competence during: internal audits; regulatory inspections; accident investigations; and workforce deployment. What Should Mine Operators Do Now? The OSH Rules create an integrated compliance chain: Qualified Manager Safety Committee & Safety Officer Medical Fitness Competency-Based Training Safe Deployment Emergency Preparedness Rescue Capability Continuous Refresher Training Records & Evidence Mine operators should therefore consider a structured OSH Mine Compliance Audit covering at least the following areas: 1. Management Governance Manager qualification and appointment Safety Officer appointment Safety Committee constitution Safety Management Plan 2. Medical Surveillance Initial medical examination Annual medical examination Dust-exposure monitoring Medical records Fitness/unfitness process Appeals 3. Emergency Preparedness Rescue station/rescue room Rescue equipment Rescue-trained personnel Communication systems Rescue tracings Emergency response plans 4. Competency Management Pre-employment training Refresher training Technology-change training Post-accident training Job-change training Training centre Training Officer Instructor/trainer competency 5. Documentation Medical certificates Training records Competency assessments Rescue records Safety Committee minutes Accident and dangerous-occurrence records Training certificates A New Way of Looking at Mine Compliance Chapter XI, Part IV should not be viewed as merely a collection of mining safety rules. It creates an interconnected Mine Safety Governance Framework. The Rules essentially establish four lines of defence: 1. Competent Leadership A qualified manager and safety professionals. 2. Fit Workforce Initial and continuing medical surveillance. 3. Competent Workforce Structured vocational, refresher and role-specific training. 4. Emergency Resilience Rescue stations, trained rescue personnel, equipment, communication and emergency preparedness. The effectiveness of mine safety therefore depends not on any one control, but on whether these four layers work together. Conclusion The OSH Rules, 2026 significantly consolidate the regulatory framework applicable to mines. Chapter XI, Part IV places considerable emphasis on managerial competence, occupational health, worker participation, emergency preparedness and continuous competency development. Perhaps the most important compliance message is this: A safe mine is not created only by safe equipment. It is created by competent people, medically fit workers, trained teams, effective supervision and preparedness for the unexpected. ****** Disclaimer: This article is intended for general information and academic discussion and should not be construed as legal advice. Applicability of specific provisions should be examined with reference to the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, the OSH Rules, 2026, applicable directions/orders of the competent authorities and the specific facts and nature of mining operations. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under labour laws Author Info Name: Lalit Babbar Qualification: MBA Company: Naks & Associates Location: West Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 19 View full profile → More from Lalit Babbar OSH Rules 2026: Journey Allowance & Audio-Visual Worker Compliance Framework September 1, 2026 Contract Labour Under OSH Rules, 2026: Key Compliance Guide August 24, 2026 Works Committee: From Compliance to Collaborative Industrial Relations August 17, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Sugar Stock Limit Reduced to 2,000 Quintals; Kolkata Allowed 4,000 Quintals September 7, 2026 ECLGS 5.0: ₹2.55 Lakh Crore Credit Support for MSMEs, Non-MSMEs and Airlines September 7, 2026 CCPA Imposes ₹10 Lakh Penalty on Dial4Trade for Online Listing and Sale of Ammonium Nitrate Without Mandatory Safeguards September 7, 2026 EPFO Invites PF Trusts to Seek Retrospective Exemption Regularisation under EPF Scheme 2026 Amnesty September 7, 2026 EPFO VISHWAS 2026 Scheme Offers Reduced EPF Damages for Long-Pending Disputes September 7, 2026 IRDAI Warns Public Against Fraudulent Website Impersonating Bima Bharosa/IGMS September 7, 2026