Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/28 Date: March 31, 2023 The Company Secretary All Listed Companies Subject: Filing of equity announcements in XBRL format on NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS) platform. Further to our circular dated January 27, 2023, bearing ref no: NSE/CML/2023/11 on the captioned subject for submitting corporate announcements under certain subjects, please note that the following announcements subjects filed under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI LODR) will be available in XBRL format with effect from April 01, 2023: (‘effective date’): • Disclosure under Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR: - Issuance or forfeiture of securities, split or consolidation of shares, buyback of securities, any restriction on transferability of securities or alteration in terms or structure of existing securities including forfeiture, reissue of forfeited securities, alteration of calls, redemption of securities etc. - Agreements (viz. shareholder agreement(s), joint venture agreement(s), family settlement agreement(s) (to the extent that it impacts management and control of the listed entity), agreement(s)/treaty(ies)/contract(s) with media companies) which are binding and not in normal course of business, revision(s) or amendment(s) and termination(s) thereof. - Fraud/defaults by promoter or key managerial personnel or by listed entity or arrest of key managerial personnel or promoter. - One time settlement with a bank - Resolution plan/ Restructuring in relation to loans/borrowings from banks/financial institutions (Inter-Creditors Agreement). - Corporate Debt Restructuring. - Notices of Shareholders Meeting At the initial stage, the PDF filings will be considered by the Exchange as compliance under Regulation 30 of the SEBI LODR. Further, all listed entities would be required to also submit the filings in XBRL mode within 24 hours of submission of the said PDF filing. At a later stage (date to be informed separately) Exchange will shift to only XBRL submission. contd... Please refer the below steps/path for submitting the announcements in XBRL format for the above- mentioned subjects: 1. Post logging in the NEAPS portal (https://neaps.nseindia.com/NEWLISTINGCORP) - go to COMPLIANCE >> Common XBRL Upload 2. On the Common XBRL Upload, please select Equity Announcement-XBRL from the drop down under Module: 3. On clicking the Equity Announcement- XBRL, the user shall then select the Subject of the Announcement from the drop down: 4. On selection of the any respective subject, the user can download the XBRL utility for the said subject from the table below (“Download Offline Excel Utilities) and fill-in the utility and generate the XML file. 5. Once the XML is generated from the utility, fill-in the required details on the portal and click on the Upload XBRL File and complete the submission. In case any queries concerning the captioned subject, please reach out to the Announcements team at takeover@nse.co.in or on the contact details given on NEAPS platform. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Dhaval Shah Manager-Listing