1 | 2025 Inspection Manohar Chowdhry & Associates (Headquartered in Chennai, India) December 8, 2025 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2026-023 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2025 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2025 Inspection and Historical Data by Inspection Year ................................... 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ........................... 8 Part I.C: Independence................................................................................................................ 11 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control ........................................................................ 12 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 2 2025 INSPECTION In the 2025 inspection of Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of issuers. We selected for review three audits of issuers with fiscal years ending in 2024. For each issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2025 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not necessarily constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work or of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on thescope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2025 INSPECTION AND HISTORICAL DATA BY INSPECTION YEAR The following information provides an overview of our 2025 inspection as well as data from the previous inspection. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 20252022 Firm data Total issuer audit clients in which the firm was the lead/principal auditor 4 2 Total issuer audits in which the firm was not the lead/principal auditor 0 0 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 1 2 2 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed3 2 Audits in which the firm was the lead/principal auditor 3 2 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) 1 0 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies3 1 Percentage of audits with Part I.A deficiencies 100% 50% If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In certain cases, the firm may have performed remedial actions after the deficiency was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing 1 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement) or for the firm’s role in an issuer audit during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspection. Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 4 additional audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR, or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — it does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. Our 2025 inspection procedures involved one audit for which the issuer, unrelated to our review, restated its financial statements to correct a misstatement and the firm issued an audit report on the issuer’s restated financial statements. The issuer also revised its report on ICFR, and the firm revised its opinion on the effectiveness of the issuer’s ICFR to express an adverse opinion. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2025 inspection and the previous inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2025 2022 Audit area Audits reviewedAudit areaAudits reviewed Revenue and related accounts 3 Revenue and related accounts 1 Cash and cash equivalents 3 Long-lived assets 1 Debt 1 Inventory 1 Significant accounts 1 Goodwill and intangible assets 1 Certain assets 1 Related party transactions 1 Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. Part I.B discusses certain deficiencies, if any, that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of apparent non-compliance with rules related to maintaining independence. Part I.C discusses instances of apparent non-compliance with rules related to maintaining independence. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 6 Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work supporting the firm’s opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A). Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies, taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR None Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer A – Communication Services Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement and ICFR audits related to Debt, Accounts Receivables,and Journal Entries. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Debt: The firm selected for testing certain controls over the issuer’s review and approval of adjustments to debt. The firm did not evaluate the review procedures that the control owners performed, including Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 7 procedures to identify items for follow up and the procedures to determine whether those items were appropriately resolved. (AS 2201.42 and .44) In addition, the firm did not identify and evaluate a departure from IFRS related to the issuer’s accounting for, and presentation of, certain debt in conformity with IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation. (AS 2810.30 and .31) Unrelated to our review, the issuer reevaluated its accounting for certain debt and concluded that a material misstatement existed that had not been previously identified. The issuer subsequently corrected this misstatement in a restatement of its financial statements, and the firm issued an audit report on the issuer’s restated financial statements. Our procedures did not include review of any additional audit work related to the restatement. The issuer also reevaluated its controls over debt and concluded that a material weakness existed that had not been previously identified. The issuer subsequently reflected this material weakness in a revision to its report on ICFR, and the firm revised its opinion on the effectiveness of the issuer’s ICFR to express an adverse opinion. Our procedures did not include review of any additional audit work related to this material weakness. With respect to Accounts Receivables: The firm selected for testing certain controls over the issuer’s review of accounts receivables and the allowance for credit losses. The firm did not identify and test any controls over the accuracy of reports used in the operation of these controls. (AS 2201.39) With respect to Journal Entries, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: For certain of the issuer’s subsidiaries, the firm did not perform any procedures to identify and select journal entries and other adjustments for testing, without having an appropriate basis for excluding those subsidiaries. (AS 2401.61) Issuer B Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue, Accounts Receivable, and a Significant Account. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue,for which the firm identified a fraud risk, and Accounts Receivable: The firm did not test, or test any controls over, the accuracy of certain system-generated reports used to substantively test revenue. (AS 1105.10) To test accounts receivable, the firm sent positive confirmation requests to a sample of customer accounts. The firm did not consider performing procedures to address the risks associated with electronic responses, such as verifying the source and contents of the confirmation responses. (AS 2310.29) Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 8 With respect to a Significant Account: The issuer engaged external specialists to assist in determining the fair value of a significant account at inception and at year-end. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not perform procedures to test the inception date fair value of the significant account, beyond obtaining and reading the company’s specialist’s report. Further, the firm did not perform procedures with respect to its use of the work of the company’s specialist as audit evidence. (AS 1105.A1 - .A10; AS 2501.07) The firm did not perform any procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of a certain significant assumption developed and used by the company’s specialist to estimate the year-end fair value of the significant account. (AS 1105.A8b) The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to evaluate whether the methodology used by the company’s specialist to develop the year-end fair value of the significant account was appropriate under the circumstances, because the firm did not evaluate whether the data and significant assumptions were appropriately applied under the applicable financial reporting framework. (AS 1105.A8c) Audits with a Single Deficiency Issuer C Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified a deficiency in the financial statement audit related to Journal Entries. Description of the deficiency identified The firm did not identify and select journal entries and other adjustments for testing to address the potential for material misstatement due to fraud. (AS 2401.58) PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES This section of our report discusses certain deficiencies that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of apparent non-compliance with rules related to maintaining independence. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. As a result, the areas below were not necessarily reviewed on every audit. In some cases, we assess the firm’s compliance with specific PCAOB standards or rules on other audits that were not reviewed and include any instances of non- compliance below. Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 9 The deficiencies below are presented in numerical order based on the PCAOB standard or rule with which the firm did not comply. We identified the following deficiencies: In one of three audits reviewed, the firm, when testing journal entries for evidence of possible material misstatement due to fraud, did not perform procedures to determine whether the journal entry population from which it made its selections was complete. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1105, Audit Evidence. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not include all of the required information in its engagement completion document. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1215, Audit Documentation. In two of three audits reviewed, the firm did not provide a copy of the management representation letter to the audit committee. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees, and AS 2805, Management Representations. In the three audits reviewed, the firm did not (1) hold a discussion among the key engagement team members about the potential for material misstatement due to fraudand (2) inquire of the audit committee, management, the internal audit function, and/or others within the company about the risks of material misstatement, including fraud risks. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not identify a fraud risk related to the risk of management override of controls. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm, when testing journal entries for evidence of possible material misstatement due to fraud, did not have an appropriate rationale for limiting its testing of entries to certain of the issuer’s entities. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2401, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. In two of three audits reviewed, the firm, when testing journal entries for possible material misstatement due to fraud, did not appropriately consider the characteristics of potentially fraudulent journal entries in determining the criteria it used to identify and select journal entries for testing. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2401, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm, when testing journal entries for evidence of possible material misstatement due to fraud, did not have an appropriate rationale for limiting its testing of entries it identified as having certain fraud characteristics to certain entries. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2401, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. In one audit, the firm’s audit report omitted one of the issuer’s financial statements. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. (A revised audit Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 10 report, which was included in a subsequent issuer filing with the SEC, expressed an opinion on the omitted financial statement). In one audit, the firm’s audit report incorrectly identified one of the issuer’s financial statements. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. In the three audits reviewed, the engagement team performed procedures to determine whether or not matters were critical audit matters but, in performing those procedures, did not include certain matters that were communicated to the audit committee and that related to accounts or disclosures that were material to the financial statements. In addition, in all of these audits, the engagement team did not take into account certain required factors in determining whether or not certain matters were critical audit matters. In these instances, the firm was non- compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. These instances of non-compliance do not necessarily mean that other critical audit matters should have been communicated in the auditor’s report. In one audit, the firm did not file its report on Form AP by the relevant deadline. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 11 PART I.C: INDEPENDENCE PCAOB Rule 3520, Auditor Independence, requires a firm and its personnel to be independent of the firm’s audit clients. This requirement encompasses not only an obligation to satisfy the independence criteria set out in PCAOB rules and standards but also an obligation to satisfy all other independence criteria applicable to an engagement, including the independence criteria set out by the SEC in Regulation S-X, 17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01, Qualifications of Accountants (“Rule 2-01”). This section of our report discusses identified instances of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520. An instance of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520 does not necessarily mean that the Board has concluded the firm was not objective and impartial throughout the audit and professional engagement period. Although this section includes instances of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520 that we identified, there may be other instances of non-compliance with rules related to independence that were not identified through our procedures or the firm’s monitoring activities. PCAOB-Identified We identified the following instances of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520: Under Rule 2-01(c)(6), an accountant is not independent if the performance of services by certain audit partners for more than the maximum period permitted occurs. We identified three instances for one issuer in which this circumstance appears to have occurred. Firm-Identified The firm did not bring to our attention any instances of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520. While the firm did not bring to our attention any instances of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520, the number, large or small, of firm-identified instances of apparent non-compliance may be reflective of the size of the firm, including the number of associated firms; the design and effectiveness of the firm’s independence monitoring activities; and the size and/or complexity of the issuers it audits, including the number of affiliates of those issuers. Therefore, we caution against making any comparison of firm-identified instances of apparent non-compliance across firms. Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | 12 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the firm provided a written response to a draft of this report. Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 4007(b), the firm’s response, excluding any portion granted confidential treatment, is attached hereto and made part of this final inspection report. The Board does not make public any of a firm’s comments that address a nonpublic portion of the report unless a firm specifically requests otherwise. In some cases, the result may be that none of a firm’s response is made publicly available. In addition, pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(b), if a firm requests, and the Board grants, confidential treatment for any of the firm’s comments on a draft report, the Board does not include those comments in the final report. The Board routinely grants confidential treatment, if requested, for any portion of a firm’s response that addresses any point in the draft that the Board omits from, or any inaccurate statement in the draft that the Board corrects in, the final report. Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-023, December 8, 2025 | A-2 A-1 |