Summary: The taxability of interest when debentures are converted into equity shares depends on whether the interest merely remains outstanding or is actually satisfied through the share allotment. In Sanjjay Saumyha v. Principal Commissioner of Income-tax, shares worth approximately ₹1.75 crore were allotted against debentures originally valued at approximately ₹1 crore, with the conversion value including accumulated interest of ₹75.46 lakh. Although the assessee followed the cash method and received no cash, the Revenue’s position was upheld because the identified interest entitlement formed part of the consideration discharged through shares. Receipt in kind must be distinguished from constructive receipt: allotment of an asset against an expressly quantified interest liability may constitute actual satisfaction of that liability. Section 47(x), which excludes qualifying debenture-to-share conversions from transfer for capital-gains purposes, does not itself exempt an interest component embedded in the conversion consideration. The Supreme Court’s decision in Jindal Equipment Leasing Consultancy Services Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax supports the limited proposition that shares capable of valuation and realisation can represent taxable commercial realisation without cash payment, although its context concerned business income from replacement of stock-in-trade. Accordingly, the instrument terms, crystallisation of the return, conversion consideration, allotment records and extinguishment of the interest liability remain central to determining taxability. Table of Contents▸ When Debenture Interest Becomes Shares: Taxability at Conversion? Madras High Court controversy Receipt in kind and constructive receipt What Jindal decision adds—and its limit A practical test for conversions Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); When Debenture Interest Becomes Shares: Taxability at Conversion? A debenture holder who follows the cash method of accounting may reasonably ask: if no interest was paid in cash, how can interest be taxed? A recent Madras High Court decision concerning the conversion of zero-coupon debentures into equity shares shows why the answer depends on the terms of conversion. The decisive question is whether accrued interest merely remained outstanding or was actually satisfied through the allotment of shares. Madras High Court controversy In Sanjjay Saumyha v. Principal Commissioner of Income-tax, the assessee held debentures with an original value of approximately ₹1 crore. On conversion, she received equity shares valued at approximately ₹1.75 crore; the conversion value included accumulated interest of ₹75.46 lakh. The assessee maintained that, because she accounted for interest on receipt and had received no cash, the interest was not taxable in that year. The Tribunal rejected that position and upheld revision under section 263 after the Assessing Officer had accepted the return without bringing the interest component to tax. The Madras High Court subsequently upheld the Revenue’s position. Tribunal decision is reported as Sanjjay Saumyha (Mrs.) v. PCIT, [2025] 210 ITD 337 (Chennai); High Court ruling is reported as TS-1517-HC-2026(MAD). The case should not be reduced to a proposition that every conversion of a debenture produces taxable interest. Here, a separately identifiable interest entitlement formed part of the stated value against which shares were allotted. If the allotment discharged that entitlement, the taxpayer received consideration for interest, albeit in the form of shares. Cash-basis accounting postpones taxation until receipt; it does not require that receipt always take the form of currency. There is, however, a factual distinction worth preserving. An increase in the market value of shares after allotment does not retrospectively become interest. Equally, a conversion formula that exchanges only the principal amount for shares cannot, without more, establish receipt of a separate interest amount. The debenture terms, conversion resolution, allotment records and accounting entries must identify what obligation the shares actually settled. Receipt in kind and constructive receipt The expressions receipt in kind and constructive receipt describe different routes to the same broad enquiry: has income reached the taxpayer? Constructive receipt generally concerns an amount made available to a taxpayer without physical payment. Receipt in kind concerns an asset actually delivered in satisfaction of an entitlement. Where a company issues shares against principal and an expressly quantified interest liability, the allotment is more directly analysed as satisfaction of interest through an asset. This distinction improves the analysis of Sanjjay Saumyha, although it need not change its result. Calling the transaction “constructive receipt” should not obscure the concrete event on which taxability rests: the interest obligation was treated as discharged on conversion. Conversely, merely crediting accrued interest in the issuer’s books, while leaving the holder’s entitlement unpaid, raises a different timing question for a holder consistently following the cash method. Section 47(x) does not settle that question. It excludes a qualifying conversion of debentures into shares from treatment as a transfer for capital gains purposes. It does not grant a general exemption to an interest receipt embedded in the conversion consideration. Principal and interest therefore require separate examination even when both are represented by the same allotment of shares. What Jindal decision adds—and its limit The likely Jindal decision relevant to this issue is the Supreme Court’s judgment in Jindal Equipment Leasing Consultancy Services Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, dated 9 January 2026. There, shareholders received shares in an amalgamated company in substitution for shares of the amalgamating company. The Court held that, if the old shares were stock-in-trade, receipt of new shares capable of definite valuation and realisation could give rise to business income under section 28 upon allotment. It remitted the matter for factual determination, including the nature of the holding and whether the new shares were freely realisable. Jindal supports a relevant but limited proposition: taxable value can be realised through shares without a cash payment or a later sale. It does not decide that all shares received on conversion of an investment debenture are taxable as income. Its charge was potential business profit from replacement of trading stock under section 28. In Sanjjay Saumyha, the disputed amount was an identified interest entitlement; the issue was whether that entitlement had been received when shares were allotted. The charge, character of income and underlying transaction differ. The Supreme Court’s discussion of Orient Trading Co. Ltd. explains the commercial-realisation principle behind Jindal: replacement of an old trading asset by a new asset of ascertainable money’s worth may crystallise a trading result. At the same time, Jindal insists on a real, presently realisable benefit and fixes allotment—not the scheme’s earlier appointed date—as the relevant event on its facts. Those safeguards argue against taxing a merely notional valuation increase. A practical test for conversions For a debenture conversion, the enquiry can be framed in four steps. First, establish whether the instrument actually carries an enforceable interest, redemption premium or other return; the label “zero-coupon” alone does not answer this. Second, determine whether that return had crystallised under the instrument’s terms. Third, identify the consideration for which shares were allotted—principal alone, or principal together with the quantified return. Fourth, determine whether allotment extinguished the return and when the holder obtained the shares. On the reported facts of Sanjjay Saumyha, the inclusion of accumulated interest in the conversion value explains the outcome. The case is best understood as taxation of a crystallised interest entitlement satisfied through shares. Jindal reinforces that a share allotment can constitute commercial realisation, while also demonstrating why taxability must remain tied to the particular charging provision and the facts of the instrument. The absence of cash is therefore relevant evidence about the form of settlement, but cannot by itself decide whether income was received. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under high court judgmentssection 263section 28 Author Info Name: joshiaj58 Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Hindalco Industries Ltd. Location: Renukoot, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from joshiaj58 Section 147A Struck Down: JAO Reassessment Notices Face Constitutional Setback September 17, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax No Trust Deed Cannot Bar Section 12AB Renewal: ITAT Mumbai September 26, 2026 Entire Property Price Cannot Be Added in One Year Under Section 69: ITAT Mumbai September 26, 2026 AO Ignored Existing Section 143(3) Assessment—Reopening After Four Years Quashed: ITAT Mumbai September 26, 2026 Reassessment Set Aside for Breach of GKN Driveshafts Procedure: ITAT Mumbai September 26, 2026 A Trust Deed Mentions Foreign Collaboration. Does That Cost the Trust Its Registration? September 26, 2026 Section 148 Notice Issued to Deceased Assessee Is Void Ab Initio: ITAT Chennai September 26, 2026