Summary: Repatriating money connected with a UAE business to India requires the payment to be identified by its legal character rather than simply described as business profit. The article explains that dividend, salary, directors’ fees, management or consultancy fees, interest, loan repayment, reimbursement, royalty, sale proceeds, liquidation distributions and branch profits can have different tax, accounting and FEMA consequences. Indian tax treatment depends substantially on the recipient’s residential status, the source and character of the payment, the point of accrual or receipt, applicable treaty provisions, the original investment route, transfer-pricing considerations and supporting records. A bank transfer to India is not necessarily a separate taxable event from the income-generating event. The article distinguishes company-level UAE Corporate Tax from Indian tax imposed on the shareholder and explains why UAE company tax is not automatically the shareholder’s foreign tax credit. It also addresses dividend declarations, salary for work performed in India, directors’ fees, services performed from India, shareholder loans, reimbursements, intellectual-property payments, sale of UAE company shares, deferred consideration, liquidation proceeds and branch profit remittances. For resident investors with ODI, the article highlights repatriation obligations, the designated authorised dealer bank, the 90-day period for specified dues and disinvestment or liquidation proceeds, purpose codes, banking documentation and the distinction between tax residence and FEMA residence. It further discusses NRE, NRO and resident accounts and emphasises that inward remittance is not governed by the LRS outward-remittance ceiling. The overall approach is to connect the UAE company’s accounts and corporate resolutions with tax records, ODI filings, banking evidence and the Indian income-tax return. Table of Contents▸ Introduction What Does Repatriation Mean? A Bank Transfer and a Taxable Event Are Not the Same Thing Start With the Recipient’s Indian Tax Residence Retaining Money in the UAE Does Not Automatically Avoid Indian Tax The UAE Company Must First Determine Distributable Profit Dividend Repatriation UAE Tax Treatment of Dividends Indian Tax on Dividends No Automatic Credit for UAE Company Tax Salary Paid by the UAE Company Salary for Work Performed in India Directors’ Fees Management and Consultancy Fees Services Performed From India Interest on Shareholder Loans FEMA Permissibility of the Original Loan Reimbursement of Business Expenses Royalty and Intellectual-Property Payments Sale of UAE Company Shares Deferred Sale Consideration Liquidation Proceeds Branch Profit Remittance ODI Repatriation Requirement When Does a Dividend Become Due? Designated Authorised Dealer Bank Documents Banks May Request Purpose Code Inward Remittance Is Not Governed by the LRS Limit NRE, NRO and Resident Accounts Remitting to an NRE Account Remitting to an NRO Account Remittance After Returning to India First Receipt Versus Subsequent Remittance Foreign Tax Credit UAE Corporate Tax Is Not Always the Recipient’s Foreign Tax India–UAE DTAA Transfer Pricing Place of Effective Management Permanent Establishment Repatriation by an Indian Company Repatriation by an Individual Shareholder Repatriation by an NRI Foreign-Asset Disclosure Anti-Money-Laundering and Source-of-Funds Review Currency Conversion Practical Example: Dividend to an Indian-Resident Founder Practical Example: Salary Credited in Dubai and Later Transferred Practical Example: Loan Principal and Interest Practical Example: Sale of a UAE Company Practical Example: Profit Retained for Expansion Documents to Maintain Common Mistakes Repatriation Checklist Conclusion Show all 55 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Indian entrepreneurs frequently ask whether profits earned through a UAE company can be transferred to India and, if so, whether the transfer will be taxed again. The answer depends on what is being transferred. A payment described casually as “business profit” may legally represent: Dividend; Salary; Directors’ fees; Management fee; Interest; Loan repayment; Reimbursement; Royalty; Sale proceeds; Liquidation distribution; or Branch profit. Each category has a different legal, tax, accounting and FEMA treatment. Transferring money from a UAE corporate bank account to an Indian personal account without identifying its legal character can create problems in both countries. The UAE company must have a lawful basis for the payment, and the Indian recipient must report it correctly. Repatriation should therefore be treated as a documented cross-border transaction rather than as a simple bank transfer. What Does Repatriation Mean? In this context, repatriation generally means transferring money connected with a UAE business to India. The recipient may be: Indian-resident individual shareholder; Indian company; Indian partnership or LLP; Non-resident Indian maintaining an Indian account; Former UAE resident who has returned to India; or Indian investor who has sold or liquidated a UAE business. The tax result is not determined merely by the destination bank account. It depends on: Recipient’s residential status; Source and character of the payment; Whether the income was already taxable in India; Whether UAE tax was paid; Applicable treaty provisions; FEMA classification; Original investment route; Transfer-pricing rules; and Supporting documents. A Bank Transfer and a Taxable Event Are Not the Same Thing Moving money to India is not always the event that creates tax. In some cases, income becomes taxable when it accrues, is declared or is first received. The subsequent remittance to India is only movement of funds already earned. For example, where an Indian-resident shareholder receives a dividend in a UAE bank account and later transfers it to India, the later transfer is generally not a second dividend. It is a remittance of money already received. Similarly, repayment of the principal amount of a genuine shareholder loan is not ordinarily income merely because it reaches an Indian account. Interest paid with that principal is a separate income component. The transaction must therefore be divided into: The event creating income or entitlement; and The transfer of the resulting funds to India. Start With the Recipient’s Indian Tax Residence The Indian tax treatment depends substantially on the recipient’s residential status. An individual may be: Resident and ordinarily resident; Resident but not ordinarily resident; or Non-resident. For tax years beginning on or after 1 April 2026, residence is determined under Section 6 of the Income-tax Act, 2025. Earlier periods remain governed by the relevant provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961. A resident and ordinarily resident individual is generally taxable in India on worldwide income. This can include salary, dividends, interest and capital gains received from a UAE company, even where the money remains abroad. An RNOR has a narrower scope of taxation, although foreign income derived from a business controlled in India or profession set up in India may still require examination. A non-resident is generally taxable in India on Indian-source income and income received, deemed received, accruing or deemed to accrue in India under the applicable provisions. A UAE visa, Emirates ID or foreign bank account does not determine Indian tax residence. Retaining Money in the UAE Does Not Automatically Avoid Indian Tax A resident and ordinarily resident individual may be taxable in India on foreign income even if it is: Retained in a UAE company; Credited to a UAE personal account; Reinvested abroad; Used to acquire foreign assets; or Never transferred to an Indian bank account. However, the UAE company and shareholder are separate persons. Undistributed profit earned and retained by a genuine UAE company is not automatically identical to the shareholder’s personal income. India does not currently operate a general controlled-foreign-company regime that attributes every undistributed profit of a foreign company to its Indian shareholder merely because that person controls the company. The conclusion may change where: The UAE company’s Place of Effective Management is in India; The company has an Indian Permanent Establishment; Funds are diverted for the shareholder’s personal benefit; The company is a sham or conduit; Payments are disguised; Transfer-pricing rules apply; or General anti-avoidance provisions become relevant. The UAE Company Must First Determine Distributable Profit A company cannot safely transfer all available bank funds to a shareholder and call the amount profit. Before declaring a dividend, the company should determine: Accounting profit; UAE Corporate Tax liability; VAT payable; Trade creditors; Employee liabilities; Statutory reserves, where applicable; Accumulated losses; Working-capital requirements; Solvency position; and Distributable reserves under the applicable company law. Cash in the bank is not always distributable profit. The company should complete appropriate financial statements and pass the required corporate resolution before paying a dividend. Dividend Repatriation Dividend is usually the most straightforward method of distributing post-tax company profit to a shareholder. A properly documented dividend generally requires: Valid shareholding; Sufficient distributable profit; Financial statements; Board or shareholder resolution, as applicable; Dividend declaration; Payment instruction; Bank-transfer evidence; and Correct accounting entries. The payment should be made to the registered shareholder or another lawfully authorised recipient. A transfer labelled “owner withdrawal” without a dividend resolution may not receive dividend treatment. UAE Tax Treatment of Dividends Under the current UAE Corporate Tax framework, the UAE withholding-tax rate is generally 0%. Accordingly, an ordinary dividend paid by a UAE company to an Indian shareholder is generally not subject to UAE withholding tax under the present framework. This does not make the dividend tax-free in India. The UAE company’s Corporate Tax and the shareholder’s Indian tax are separate matters: The company may pay UAE Corporate Tax on its taxable profit. It may then distribute post-tax profit as a dividend. The Indian shareholder may be taxable in India on that dividend based on the shareholder’s residential status. Company-level Corporate Tax cannot automatically be claimed as personal tax paid by the shareholder. Indian Tax on Dividends A resident and ordinarily resident Indian shareholder is generally taxable in India on dividends received from a UAE company. The dividend should be reported under the applicable head of income in the Indian return. The precise rate and permissible deductions depend on the law applicable to the taxpayer and tax year. A non-resident shareholder may have a different Indian position, particularly where the dividend is foreign-source income and first received outside India. The relevant facts include: Residential status; Date of declaration; Date the amount became payable; Place of first receipt; Bank account used; Whether the dividend is connected with an Indian business; and Applicable treaty provisions. A later transfer from the UAE bank account to India should not ordinarily be treated as a second receipt of the same income where the funds were first received abroad and the evidence clearly establishes that fact. No Automatic Credit for UAE Company Tax An Indian shareholder may observe that the UAE company has already paid Corporate Tax before declaring the dividend. That does not automatically mean the shareholder can claim the company’s tax as foreign tax credit. Foreign tax credit ordinarily concerns foreign tax legally paid by or attributable to the taxpayer on income also taxed in India, subject to the applicable domestic law and treaty. The shareholder should not claim the UAE company’s Corporate Tax as personal foreign tax without identifying a specific legal basis. The distinction is: Corporate Tax is paid by the UAE company on its taxable income. Dividend tax in India is imposed on the shareholder’s dividend income. The company and shareholder are separate taxpayers. Salary Paid by the UAE Company An entrepreneur may draw salary from the UAE company instead of, or in addition to, a dividend. Salary should correspond to genuine employment or executive duties. The company should maintain: Employment agreement; Job description; Payroll records; Board approval; Payslips; Work-location records; Bank-transfer evidence; and Evidence that remuneration is commercially reasonable. Indian taxation depends on: Employee’s residential status; Location where employment is exercised; Indian and UAE working days; Whether remuneration is borne by an Indian PE; Nature of the duties; Place of receipt; and India–UAE treaty provisions. A salary paid into a UAE bank account is not automatically outside Indian tax. Salary for Work Performed in India Where the founder lives or works in India while receiving salary from a UAE company, India may tax remuneration attributable to duties performed in India. The result does not change merely because: The employment contract is signed in Dubai; The payer is a UAE company; Salary is denominated in dirhams; Payment enters a UAE bank; or The person holds a UAE investor visa. A workday and travel analysis may be necessary where duties are performed in both countries. The arrangement may also contribute to Indian Permanent Establishment or Place of Effective Management concerns for the UAE company. Directors’ Fees Directors’ fees should be separated from salary for executive employment. The India–UAE DTAA contains a distinct provision for directors’ fees. It generally permits the country in which the company is resident to tax fees received in the recipient’s capacity as a board member. The shareholder’s Indian residence and worldwide-income rules must also be considered. Documentation should clearly distinguish: Board fees; Salary; Consultancy remuneration; Reimbursement; and Dividend. Using one description for all payments can produce incorrect withholding and reporting. Management and Consultancy Fees A UAE company may pay an Indian shareholder, professional or related Indian business for management or consultancy services. The payment should be supported by: Service agreement; Defined scope; Commercial need; Invoices; Deliverables; Time records; Pricing analysis; Proof of performance; and Bank documents. The recipient may be taxable in India on the service income. Indian GST may also require examination. Where the parties are related, the fee must satisfy transfer-pricing and arm’s-length requirements in both jurisdictions. An unsupported management charge should not be used merely to move cash from the UAE company to India. Services Performed From India If services are physically performed from India, several questions arise: Is the income taxable in India? Must the recipient register for GST? Does the payment qualify as consideration for export of services? Does the UAE company have an Indian PE? Is the payment at arm’s length? Is UAE Corporate Tax deduction available? Is the service connected with intellectual property? Are invoices and foreign-exchange records complete? The fact that the customer is a UAE company does not automatically make the Indian service provider’s income foreign-source or tax-exempt. Interest on Shareholder Loans An Indian investor may have lawfully advanced money to the UAE company under the applicable FEMA framework. When the UAE company repays the amount, the payment should be split between: Principal; and Interest. Repayment of genuine principal is ordinarily a capital receipt rather than income. Interest is ordinarily income and may be taxable in India. The parties should preserve: Loan agreement; Original remittance documents; Regulatory approvals or reporting; Interest calculation; Repayment schedule; Board approval; Bank advice; Currency-conversion workings; and Transfer-pricing support. A payment cannot be treated as loan repayment if no genuine loan was created or reported. FEMA Permissibility of the Original Loan Resident individuals do not have the same overseas financing permissions as Indian entities. An Indian resident should not assume that a shareholder loan to a UAE company was permissible merely because equity investment was permitted under the Liberalised Remittance Scheme. The original funding should be reviewed under: Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999; Overseas Investment Rules, 2022; Overseas Investment Regulations, 2022; RBI Master Direction on Overseas Investment; and Applicable LRS conditions. If the original loan was not permitted or properly reported, receiving repayment does not automatically regularise the initial violation. Reimbursement of Business Expenses A UAE company may reimburse an Indian shareholder or employee for expenses paid personally on its behalf. A genuine reimbursement is generally different from income where: The expense belongs to the company; The individual acted on its behalf; Exact cost is reimbursed; No profit element is added; Invoices are available; Business purpose is established; and Accounting entries are correct. Round-sum payments unsupported by receipts may be treated as remuneration, fees, benefits or shareholder withdrawals. The company should not use reimbursement accounts as an informal way to distribute profit. Royalty and Intellectual-Property Payments A UAE company may pay royalty to an Indian person for using: Trademark; Software; Copyright; Patent; Design; Technical know-how; Commercial information; or Other intellectual property. Royalty payments require examination of: Ownership of the intellectual property; Development history; Licence agreement; Rights granted; Transfer pricing; Indian tax; GST; UAE deductibility; Beneficial ownership; Treaty classification; and FEMA. A founder should not charge royalty for intellectual property that legally or economically belongs to the UAE company. Sale of UAE Company Shares An Indian investor may repatriate proceeds after selling shares in a UAE company. The receipt generally consists of sale consideration rather than a dividend. The Indian tax analysis may involve: Seller’s residential status; Acquisition cost; Sale price; Capital gain or loss; Foreign-currency conversion; Valuation; Related-party pricing; India–UAE treaty; UAE tax; Indirect-transfer rules; Repatriation timeline; and ODI disinvestment reporting. A resident and ordinarily resident seller is generally exposed to Indian tax on worldwide capital gains. The sale agreement should identify the price, payment schedule and ownership transfer clearly. Deferred Sale Consideration Where consideration is deferred, the arrangement must comply with FEMA and applicable overseas-investment regulations. The parties should establish: Total agreed consideration; Amount paid at closing; Deferred amount; Payment dates; Security or indemnity; Valuation compliance; Tax timing; Currency treatment; and Reporting obligations. An indefinite or discretionary balance may be questioned as a loan, guarantee or unreported financial commitment. Liquidation Proceeds Where a UAE company is liquidated, the investor may receive the net value of its remaining assets. The payment should be supported by: Liquidator’s report; Final audited accounts; Licence cancellation; Tax deregistration; Settlement of creditors; Distribution statement; Bank closure; Proof of shareholding; and ODI reporting. Indian tax treatment depends on the applicable provisions governing shareholder distributions on liquidation. The payment should not automatically be treated as a tax-free return of capital. Branch Profit Remittance A UAE company may operate in India through a branch or Permanent Establishment and later transfer after-tax branch profit to the UAE. That direction of transfer is from India to the UAE and raises separate Indian tax and foreign-exchange considerations. Conversely, an Indian company may operate through a UAE branch and remit branch profits to India. A branch is not ordinarily a separate legal person from its head office. The remittance may therefore differ from a dividend between two companies. The analysis should consider: Legal identity; Profit attribution; Local tax paid; Head-office accounting; Foreign tax credit; Regulatory filings; and Bank documentation. ODI Repatriation Requirement The Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Regulations, 2022 impose repatriation obligations on persons resident in India who have made ODI. A resident investor must generally realise and repatriate to India: Dues receivable from the foreign entity relating to the investment; Consideration received on transfer or disinvestment; and Net realisable value received upon liquidation. The applicable amount must generally be repatriated within 90 days from: The date the receivable falls due; The date of transfer or disinvestment; or The date on which the liquidator actually distributes the assets, as applicable. The investor should not leave declared dividends or sale proceeds indefinitely outside India without reviewing this requirement. When Does a Dividend Become Due? The 90-day repatriation period should be linked to the point at which the amount legally becomes receivable under the company’s governing law and the dividend resolution. Relevant documents include: Date of declaration; Date of approval; Record date; Payment date; Conditions attached to the dividend; Company’s solvency position; and Amount legally payable to each shareholder. A proposal to distribute profit is not necessarily identical to a declared and legally due dividend. The corporate resolution should state the relevant dates clearly. Designated Authorised Dealer Bank ODI transactions connected with a particular foreign entity are generally routed through the designated authorised dealer bank associated with that investment and its Unique Identification Number. The investor should inform the designated AD bank when receiving: Dividend; Interest; Sale proceeds; Liquidation proceeds; Other investment-related dues; or Capital reduction payments. The bank may require the transaction to be linked with the existing ODI record. Using an unrelated Indian account or failing to identify the UIN can complicate regulatory reconciliation. Documents Banks May Request For inward remittance of UAE business proceeds, the Indian bank may request: Remittance advice; SWIFT copy; Purpose code; Share certificate; UIN details; Form FC records; Annual Performance Report status; Board or shareholder resolution; Dividend voucher; Financial statements; Sale agreement; Valuation report; Loan agreement; Interest calculation; Liquidation report; Tax documents; Identity and KYC records; and Explanation of source of funds. The precise documents depend on the nature of the payment and bank policy. The payment description on the SWIFT message should match the underlying legal documents. Purpose Code Inward remittances are categorised by purpose. A bank may need to distinguish among: Dividend; Interest; Salary; Consultancy receipt; Export proceeds; Disinvestment proceeds; Loan repayment; Reimbursement; and Capital transfer. Using a generic or incorrect purpose code can cause delays and create inconsistencies between banking, FEMA, accounting and income-tax records. The recipient should give the bank an accurate description rather than choosing the code that appears easiest. Inward Remittance Is Not Governed by the LRS Limit The Liberalised Remittance Scheme principally governs eligible outward remittances by resident individuals from India. An inward transfer of properly earned dividend, salary or sale proceeds from the UAE is not generally restricted by the USD 250,000 LRS outward-remittance ceiling. However, the underlying transaction must still comply with: ODI rules; Repatriation requirements; Anti-money-laundering checks; Banking KYC; Indian taxation; UAE law; and Applicable reporting. The absence of an LRS ceiling does not mean that unexplained funds can be transferred without documentation. NRE, NRO and Resident Accounts The correct Indian account depends on the recipient’s FEMA residential status and the nature of the funds. A person resident outside India may use NRE, NRO or other permitted accounts in accordance with FEMA and banking rules. A person who has returned to India for an indefinite period may need to redesignate accounts. Tax residence and FEMA residence are separate. A person may need to assess both before selecting the account. The bank should be informed when residential status changes. Remitting to an NRE Account Eligible foreign earnings of a person resident outside India may generally be credited to an NRE account through permitted banking channels. NRE account treatment does not determine the tax character of the original receipt. A taxable dividend does not become exempt merely because it is credited to an NRE account. Similarly, the tax treatment of NRE interest depends on satisfaction of the applicable conditions, not only the account label. Remitting to an NRO Account An NRO account is commonly used for income and transactions connected with India, although permitted overseas remittances can also be credited subject to banking rules. Credit to an NRO account does not itself determine whether the amount is taxable. The recipient must separately establish whether the transfer represents: Foreign income; Indian income; Capital; Loan repayment; Gift; Sale proceeds; or Another receipt. Remittance After Returning to India An individual may accumulate UAE business earnings while genuinely non-resident and remit those savings after becoming resident in India. The later remittance does not ordinarily become income merely because the person has returned to India. The individual should prove: Residential status when the income arose; Source of the funds; Place of first receipt; UAE bank history; Tax treatment in the year of earning; Nature of the income; and Continuity of the funds. Commingled accounts and unexplained cash deposits can make this evidence difficult to establish. First Receipt Versus Subsequent Remittance This distinction is particularly important for non-residents and RNORs. If foreign income is first received outside India and later transferred to India, the later transfer is ordinarily a remittance of previously received funds. If India is the place of first receipt, the tax position may be different. Evidence of first receipt can include: UAE bank statement; Salary advice; Dividend voucher; Sale settlement; SWIFT record; Payment date; and Indian inward-remittance advice. The phrase “received in India” should not be decided merely by looking at where the money ultimately ended up. Foreign Tax Credit If the same income is taxed in the UAE and India, relief may be available under the India–UAE DTAA and Indian foreign-tax-credit provisions. The taxpayer should maintain: UAE tax return; Tax assessment or statement; Proof of payment; Withholding certificate; Income reconciliation; Currency conversion; Applicable Indian prescribed form; and Calculation of Indian tax attributable to the foreign income. The credit is generally restricted to the lower of eligible UAE tax and Indian tax attributable to the same income, subject to current law. UAE Corporate Tax Is Not Always the Recipient’s Foreign Tax A company may pay UAE Corporate Tax on its business profit before transferring a dividend to its shareholder. The shareholder cannot automatically claim that company-level tax as personal foreign tax credit. Likewise, where a UAE subsidiary pays tax and remits a dividend to an Indian parent, the availability of any direct or underlying credit must be established under the precise statutory and treaty provisions. The taxpayer should identify: Legal taxpayer; Income on which tax was imposed; Amount paid; Income taxed in India; Treaty article; and Applicable credit mechanism. India–UAE DTAA The India–UAE DTAA allocates taxing rights and provides relief from double taxation. Depending on the transaction, relevant provisions may include: Article 4 — Residence; Article 5 — Permanent Establishment; Article 7 — Business profits; Article 10 — Dividends; Article 11 — Interest; Article 12 — Royalties; Article 13 — Capital gains; Article 14 — Independent professional services; Article 15 — Employment income; Article 16 — Directors’ fees; and Article 25 — Elimination of double taxation. Treaty relief is not obtained merely by mentioning “DTAA” on a bank form. The taxpayer may need: Tax Residency Certificate; Form 10F or applicable successor form; Beneficial-ownership evidence; Income documents; Foreign tax records; Permanent Establishment analysis; and Consistency with treaty anti-abuse provisions. Transfer Pricing Payments between a UAE company and its Indian owner or related Indian business must be commercially supportable. Transfer-pricing concerns can arise with: Salary; Directors’ remuneration; Management fees; Consultancy charges; Interest; Royalty; Cost reimbursement; Purchase and sale of goods; Guarantees; Intellectual-property transfers; and Business restructuring. A payment should not be selected solely because one category produces a lower tax rate. The legal character should follow the actual function, contract and commercial substance. Place of Effective Management Repatriating profit does not itself make a UAE company resident in India. However, the surrounding facts may reveal that the company is effectively managed from India. POEM risk increases where the Indian owner: Controls all UAE banking; Approves every contract; Determines prices from India; Manages employees remotely; Uses nominee UAE directors; Makes strategic decisions in India; or Operates the UAE company from an Indian home. If the company’s POEM is in India, India may tax its worldwide income as a resident company, subject to applicable law and treaty relief. The issue would then be broader than taxation of a dividend or remittance. Permanent Establishment A UAE company may remain UAE-resident while creating an Indian PE through: Office; Home office; Employees; Customer premises; Service projects; Construction or installation work; Dependent agents; Inventory; or Contracting activities. India may tax profits attributable to the PE. Payments described as management fees, salary or reimbursement should be reviewed in light of the company’s complete Indian presence. Repatriation by an Indian Company Where an Indian company owns the UAE company, receipts may include: Dividend; Interest; Royalty; Service fee; Loan repayment; Capital reduction; Sale proceeds; or Liquidation distribution. The Indian company should consider: Taxability under Indian law; Foreign tax credit; Transfer pricing; ODI reporting; Withholding; Accounting standards; Income recognition; Valuation; and Repatriation deadlines. Corporate shareholders should not apply rules intended for individual shareholders without a separate analysis. Repatriation by an Individual Shareholder An individual should separate personal receipts into clear categories. A practical sequence is: 1. Determine Indian tax and FEMA residence; 2. Identify the legal basis of the payment; 3. Complete UAE corporate approvals; 4. Confirm UAE Corporate Tax treatment; 5. Check ODI and repatriation requirements; 6. Prepare bank documents; 7. Transfer through normal banking channels; 8. Record the receipt in the correct Indian account; 9. Report the income or capital receipt appropriately; and 10. Preserve the evidence. Personal and company bank accounts should not be used interchangeably. Repatriation by an NRI An NRI who owns a UAE company may transfer lawful foreign earnings to India through permitted banking channels. The Indian tax position depends on: Income’s source; Place of first receipt; Residential status; Connection with India; Applicable treaty article; and Whether the person becomes resident during the year. NRI status for income tax and FEMA should be confirmed separately. Foreign-Asset Disclosure A resident and ordinarily resident Indian taxpayer may be required to disclose: UAE company shares; Foreign bank accounts; Signing authority; Dividends; Interest; Sale proceeds; Shareholder loans; Beneficial ownership; and Other foreign financial interests. Reporting may be required even if the money has not been repatriated. The Black Money Act can become relevant where foreign assets or income are not disclosed as required. Anti-Money-Laundering and Source-of-Funds Review Large inward remittances can trigger enhanced bank review. The recipient should be prepared to explain: Origin of the company; Nature of business; Shareholding; Source of original investment; Source of profit; UAE tax compliance; Reason for payment; Relationship between payer and recipient; Beneficial ownership; and Regulatory reporting. Banks may delay or reject a transfer where the documents are inconsistent, incomplete or suggest an unexplained third-party payment. Normal banking channels should always be used. Cash movement, hawala, informal settlement or unrelated third-party routing can create serious legal consequences. Currency Conversion Foreign income and capital gains must be converted into Indian currency using the method prescribed under the applicable Indian tax rules. The bank’s conversion rate is not always identical to the rate required for income-tax computation. The taxpayer should maintain: Foreign-currency amount; Relevant date; Prescribed exchange rate; Bank conversion rate; Charges deducted; Net rupees received; and Reconciliation between accounting and tax records. Bank charges should not reduce taxable income automatically unless deduction is permitted under the applicable provisions. Practical Example: Dividend to an Indian-Resident Founder An Indian-resident founder owns a Dubai company. After finalising its accounts and Corporate Tax liability, the company declares a dividend of AED 300,000. The company passes a proper resolution and transfers the amount to the founder’s Indian bank account. The founder should consider: Indian worldwide-income taxation; Correct income-tax reporting; Whether foreign tax credit is actually available; ODI repatriation records; UIN linkage; Foreign-asset disclosure; Currency conversion; and Bank evidence. The AED 300,000 should not be treated as tax-free merely because the UAE currently applies 0% withholding tax. Practical Example: Salary Credited in Dubai and Later Transferred A UAE company pays monthly salary to its founder’s UAE personal account. The founder later sends savings to India. If the founder is ordinarily resident in India, the salary may already be taxable in India as worldwide income, regardless of the later remittance. If the founder is non-resident and performs the employment entirely in the UAE, the Indian position may differ. The later transfer is not a second salary payment if the evidence establishes prior receipt abroad. Practical Example: Loan Principal and Interest An Indian company lawfully lends AED 1 million to its UAE subsidiary. The subsidiary later pays AED 1 million principal and AED 80,000 interest. The receipts should not be combined. The Indian company should separately account for: Principal repayment; Interest income; Transfer pricing; Foreign tax; ODI reporting; Bank purpose codes; and Currency conversion. Treating the entire AED 1.08 million as profit would be incorrect. Practical Example: Sale of a UAE Company An Indian-resident individual sells a wholly owned UAE company for AED 5 million. The investor should consider: Capital gain under Indian law; Acquisition cost; Exchange-rate rules; UAE tax; Valuation; Related-party issues; Disinvestment reporting; Repatriation within the prescribed period; and Closure or updating of the ODI record. The sale proceeds should not be reported as dividend income. Practical Example: Profit Retained for Expansion A genuine UAE company earns profit, pays applicable UAE Corporate Tax and retains the balance to acquire equipment and hire employees. The Indian shareholder receives no dividend, salary, benefit or other distribution. The retained profit is not automatically the shareholder’s personal income merely because the shareholder controls the company. Nevertheless, the shareholder may still need to disclose the foreign company interest, and the company’s POEM, transfer pricing and commercial substance remain relevant. Documents to Maintain A complete repatriation file may include: Certificate of incorporation; Trade licence; Memorandum and articles; Share certificate; UIN and Form FC records; ODI remittance evidence; Annual Performance Reports; Financial statements; UAE Corporate Tax return; Tax-payment receipt; Dividend resolution; Dividend voucher; Employment or service agreement; Payslips and invoices; Loan agreement; Interest calculation; Sale agreement; Valuation report; Liquidation report; SWIFT advice; Indian inward-remittance certificate; Bank purpose-code confirmation; Currency-conversion working; Foreign tax credit computation; and Indian return disclosures. Records should establish both the commercial origin and legal character of the payment. Common Mistakes Common mistakes include: Transferring money without identifying its legal nature; Treating every owner withdrawal as dividend; Declaring dividends without sufficient distributable reserves; Claiming UAE company tax as the shareholder’s personal credit; Assuming the remittance is tax-free because UAE withholding is 0%; Believing money becomes taxable only when brought to India; Taxing the same receipt twice because first receipt is not documented; Treating loan principal as income; Creating a shareholder loan without FEMA permission; Paying unsupported management fees; Mixing personal and company expenditure; Ignoring transfer pricing; Using the wrong bank purpose code; Failing to link receipts with the ODI UIN; Missing the 90-day repatriation requirement; Leaving sale or liquidation proceeds abroad indefinitely; Failing to disclose foreign assets; Ignoring POEM or PE exposure; Using third-party accounts; and Maintaining no source-of-funds evidence. Repatriation Checklist Before transferring UAE business funds to India, confirm: Who is the legal payer? Who is the legal recipient? What is the recipient’s Indian tax residence? What is the recipient’s FEMA residence? Is the payment a dividend, salary, fee, interest, principal, reimbursement or capital proceeds? Has the UAE company approved the payment properly? Is the amount supported by financial statements? Has applicable UAE Corporate Tax been considered? Does transfer pricing apply? Is the original overseas investment FEMA-compliant? Is the amount linked to an ODI UIN? Does the 90-day repatriation rule apply? Which AD bank should receive or record the payment? What purpose code is appropriate? Is the receipt taxable in India? Is foreign tax credit available? Is treaty documentation required? Must the foreign asset or income be disclosed? Is the currency conversion correct? Are all supporting records retained? Conclusion UAE business profits can generally be transferred to India through normal banking channels, but the transfer must be correctly characterised and documented. Dividend, salary, interest, loan repayment, reimbursement, sale proceeds and liquidation distributions are not interchangeable. Each has different consequences under Indian tax law, UAE Corporate Tax, FEMA and the India–UAE DTAA. For an Indian-resident investor who has made ODI, dividends and other dues, disinvestment proceeds and liquidation distributions may also be subject to the prescribed 90-day repatriation requirement. The most important principle is that taxability does not depend solely on whether money enters India. Income may already be taxable because of the recipient’s residence, while a later remittance may simply represent movement of previously received savings. Conversely, a transfer described as capital may be taxable if the underlying documents do not support that description. A clean repatriation process should connect the UAE company’s accounts and resolutions with its Corporate Tax records, the Indian investor’s ODI filings, banking documents and Indian income-tax return. References 1. Reserve Bank of India — Master Direction on Overseas Investment:https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_ViewMasDirections.aspx?id=12710 2. Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Rules, 2022, Notification No. G.S.R. 646(E), dated 22 August 2022. 3. Foreign Exchange Management (Overseas Investment) Regulations, 2022, including Regulation 9 concerning investor obligations and repatriation:https://www.rbi.org.in/ 4. Income-tax Act, 2025 — provisions concerning residence, foreign income, dividends, capital gains, transfer pricing and foreign tax credit:https://www.incometax.gov.in/ 5. Income-tax Act, 1961 — provisions applicable to periods governed by that Act:https://www.incometaxindia.gov.in/ 6. India–UAE DTAA and synthesised text incorporating the Multilateral Instrument:https://wmstatic-prd.incometaxindia.gov.in/web/guest/w/uae-synthesised-text-1 7. UAE Federal Tax Authority — Corporate Tax legislation and guidance:https://tax.gov.ae/en/taxes/corporate.tax.aspx 8. UAE Ministry of Finance — Corporate Tax and Double Taxation Agreements:https://mof.gov.ae/ 9. Reserve Bank of India — Master Direction on Deposits and Accounts:https://www.rbi.org.in/ 10. Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015:https://www.indiacode.nic.in **** Disclaimer: This article is intended solely for general educational and informational purposes. It does not constitute legal, tax, FEMA, banking, investment or professional advice. Tax laws, RBI directions, treaty provisions, reporting forms and bank procedures may change. The treatment of a remittance depends on its legal character, the recipient’s residential status, the original investment and the applicable law for the relevant period. Readers should verify current requirements and obtain professional advice before transferring or reporting cross-border funds. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under FEMA Author Info Name: Mandeep Singh Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: KPM GLOBAL Location: Dubai, Dubai Articles Published: 23 View full profile → More from Mandeep Singh UAE Corporate Tax for Indian Entrepreneurs: Key Tax & Compliance Issues September 19, 2026 Permanent Establishment Risks for UAE Companies Operating in India September 18, 2026 POEM for Indian-Owned UAE Companies: Tax Residence, Management & Compliance September 18, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Fema / RBI RBI Amends Rural Co-operative Banks KYC Directions to Extend Certified Copy Facility to FPIs September 19, 2026 RBI Amends Urban Co-operative Banks KYC Directions to Extend Certified Copy Facility to FPIs September 19, 2026 RBI Amends Regional Rural Banks KYC Directions to Extend Certified Copy Facility to FPIs September 19, 2026 Certified KYC Copy Facility Extended to FPIs by Local Area Banks September 19, 2026 Certified KYC Copy Facility Extended to FPIs by Small Finance Banks September 19, 2026 FEMA Section 37A Applies to Continued Foreign Asset Holding: SAFEMA Tribunal September 19, 2026