Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); SEO Title: 12AB Condonation Route and Delayed 80G Applications: Legal Remedies Explained Summary: Registration under section 12AB and approval under section 80G must be examined as separate statutory approvals, particularly where an institution has missed an application deadline, received a rejection, or held only provisional approval. The condonation mechanism under section 332(4) of the Income-tax Act, 2025 provides a route for specified delayed registration applications, including cases involving provisional registration and commenced activities, but there is no corresponding general condonation provision in section 354 for delayed 80G applications. The article therefore distinguishes delayed 12AB registration from missed provisional-to-regular 80G conversion, examines whether an application was actually filed, and explains the evidence needed to establish reasonable cause. It considers correction of wrong section codes, withdrawal and reapplication, appeals, rectification, Board-level hardship relief, judicial review and the limits of fresh applications. Particular attention is given to the disputed use of the fresh-approval route after a missed 80G conversion deadline and to the fact that portal acceptance does not itself determine statutory maintainability. The transition from the Income-tax Act, 1961 to the 2025 Act also does not automatically restart expired limitation periods. Ultimately, the appropriate remedy depends on the precise chronology, the approval actually held, the application actually filed, the order passed and the period of relief sought. The article concludes by suggesting a targeted legislative solution for delayed 80G applications while cautioning advisers against treating a current filing as automatic retrospective protection. 12AB Gets a Condonation Route—What Happens to Delayed 80G Applications? The two approvals must be tracked separately Registration addresses the institution’s eligibility for the charitable exemption framework. Donation approval addresses the qualifying status of donations for donors. Holding registration does not establish that donation approval was ever obtained. Equally, an acknowledgement for one application cannot be treated as an acknowledgement for both unless the filed form actually contains both requests. The first task is to assemble the two orders, their effective periods, the two application histories and the operative portions of any rejection. “Our provisional registration is intact” is insufficient information for advising on donation approval. It must be established whether provisional 12AB registration, provisional 80G approval, or both survive. “Permanent” should ordinarily be read as regular approval, subject to the actual validity stated in the order. A rejection of an application and cancellation of an existing order are also different events. Practitioners should read what the authority actually ordered instead of inferring continuing validity from a portal label or the date printed on an older certificate. The statutory difference in condonation powers Section 332(3), Table serial number 3, covers provisional registration holders whose activities have commenced. Section 332(4) allows the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner to condone delayed applications for reasonable cause, treating them as timely. Serial number 2 requires absence of prior registration under a specified provision; it is therefore generally unsuitable as a substitute for a previously registered institution. The corresponding section 354 table is summarised below. Entry Approval situation Application deadline 1 Activities have not commenced During the tax year from which approval is sought 2 Activities have commenced During the tax year from which approval is sought 3 Provisional approval exists and activities have commenced Within six months of commencement 4 Provisional approval approaching expiry and activities have not commenced At least six months before expiry 5 Regular approval approaching expiry At least six months before expiry The absence of a direct condonation provision in section 354 prevents an adviser from promising that the Commissioner will excuse a missed deadline simply because the cause is genuine. The Form 105 manual expressly restricts its condonation facility to section 332. The approving authority’s jurisdiction must be identified before the strength of the explanation is assessed. Registration delay can have consequences beyond annual exemption. Section 332(6) links certain uncondoned registration defaults to accreted-income tax under section 352. That exposure must be examined separately on the institution’s dates and applicable transition law; it should neither be ignored nor automatically attributed to every 80G lapse. Transition from the 1961 Act does not restart limitation The Department’s transition FAQs explain that existing provisional approval is not invalid merely because the new Act begins on 1 April 2026. Fresh applications filed thereafter follow the new framework, while registration applications pending from financial year 2025–26 are disposed of under the old Act. For an old provisional 80G conversion application, the 1961 Act required filing six months before provisional approval expired or within six months of activity commencement, whichever occurred earlier. The old deadline must therefore be calculated under the law applicable to the original filing, rather than replaced retrospectively by a convenient new-table entry. A fresh filing under the new Act, proceedings concerning an old rejection, and restoration of an earlier approval period can coexist as separate legal questions. The new Act’s commencement is not, by itself, a general amnesty for expired deadlines. Check whether a relevant circular or statutory relaxation actually covers the category and dates; a historical extension cannot be used as a rolling permission to file late. Establish whether the case involves delay at all A timely filed application rejected for an incorrect clause is materially different from an institution that made no application before limitation. In the former case, the principal argument may be preservation of the original filing and correction of its description. In the latter, an actual delay must be admitted through a legally competent route. Preparation of a draft, delivery of papers to an adviser, saving a form on the portal, or an unsuccessful upload attempt should not be equated automatically with completed filing. Retain the submitted form, acknowledgement, verification details and any records explaining failure. A portal grievance supports evidence of difficulty but is not necessarily a statutory application. An institution that filed only for 12AB cannot characterise that filing as a timely 80G application. This is often the decisive factual gap. Likewise, waiting for disposal of one proceeding does not automatically suspend a separate deadline. The chronology should show precisely what was filed, under which provision, and with what relief requested. Reasons for delay and the evidence needed There is no exhaustive statutory catalogue of reasonable cause. The following are recurring factual explanations, not presumptions of entitlement. Their relevance depends on the remedy invoked and the authority’s power to grant it. Explanation Evidence to preserve Main difficulty Wrong clause or section code Filed form, acknowledgement, advice received and rejection order Proving the intended request was identifiable and timely Waiting during departmental proceedings Notices, responses and dated orders Pendency does not automatically stop limitation Portal or utility failure Timestamped error screens, tickets, correspondence and repeated attempts Establishing that failure actually prevented timely completion DSC, verification or PAN problem Renewal requests, error records and correction history Delay before the deadline and prompt action afterward Serious illness or death Medical records, dates, responsibility allocation and handover records Connecting the event to the inability to file Adviser error or change of adviser Engagement records, instructions, correspondence and handover Demonstrating diligence by the institution as well Dispute about activity commencement Project records, first operational expenditure and beneficiary records A later convenient date must not contradict accounts Missing deed or registration records Requests for copies and efforts to retrieve them Explaining why the application could not be completed Trustee dispute or change of office bearers Minutes, proceedings, authority documents and access records Internal disagreement does not automatically excuse compliance Ignorance or routine oversight A candid chronology and prompt corrective action Bare assertions without corroboration are comparatively weak The explanation must cover the entire material period, including the time after the obstruction ended or the rejection became known. A convincing account of illness followed by several unexplained months of inactivity leaves a substantial gap. Statements such as “the consultant forgot” should be supported by the instructions given, follow-up undertaken and subsequent corrective action. For activity commencement, distinguish formation and preparations from actual charitable operations on the evidence. Do not assume the date of the first donation, trust deed or provisional order is invariably the legal commencement date. Where activities pre-date provisional approval, address that fact openly and obtain advice on the applicable deadline; do not manufacture a later commencement date to make the application appear timely. Cure for delayed 12AB registration For the usual case of existing provisional registration and commenced activities, submit Form 105 under section 332(3), Table serial number 3, with the section 332(4) condonation request where required. The request should state the calculated deadline, actual filing date, cause of delay and relief sought. Merely selecting the correct category does not establish that delay has been condoned. A technical rejection during the earlier proceeding may support reasonable cause, especially where the original filing was timely and the correct filing followed promptly. Explain why the error arose and why the institution reasonably pursued the earlier proceeding. The stronger submission supplies documents instead of relying on sympathy or the institution’s charitable reputation. Condonation removes the lateness objection to the application. It does not establish genuine activities, compliant objects or every other requirement for registration. Nor should an adviser promise exemption for all intervening years without examining the eventual order’s period and the governing savings provisions. Cure where provisional 80G approval never existed If the institution never held donation approval and activities have commenced, the fresh regular-approval category is section 354(2), Table serial number 2. There is no missed provisional-to-regular donation-approval deadline to condone. A lapse concerning registration cannot be transferred mechanically into the approval application. This conclusion remains subject to registration eligibility and the substantive approval conditions. It also differs from the case where previous regular donation approval existed and expired: that history cannot be erased by describing the institution as a first-time applicant. The disputed serial number 2 route after missed 80G conversion Where provisional donation approval exists and the six-month conversion deadline was missed, a fresh application under serial number 2 presents an interpretation issue. The argument in its favour is that its wording covers commenced activities without an express exclusion for previous approval holders. The objection is that serial number 3 specifically addresses provisional approval holders and gives them a particular deadline. Treating serial number 2 as universally available could deprive that deadline of practical effect. In my view, a fully disclosed application for fresh current-year approval is an arguable course where no clearer remedy is available. It should be presented as a request requiring a decision on maintainability, not as settled law or an indirect statutory condonation. The submission should distinguish future approval from retrospective restoration, address the specific-versus-general objection and explain the previous history. Acceptance by the portal is not a legal determination. Oral advice from an Assessing Officer is useful practical guidance but cannot confer a power on the approval authority. The Principal Commissioner or Commissioner must decide the application. Nor does serial number 2 establish an unrestricted right to restart approval repeatedly after non-compliance. Correcting a wrong clause before an order Rule 181(15) permits a correction request for an erroneous section code or nature of activity in pending Form 105, before the Form 107 order. Withdrawal is separately available within seven days under Rule 181(11). Correction is often preferable where the original filing date matters. Withdrawal followed by fresh filing may create a new limitation problem. Ask that the intended category and the treatment of the original date be addressed expressly. A correction request does not necessarily cure an application that was already late when submitted. This new procedure should not be represented as automatically reopening a completed Form 10AD rejection under the 1961 Act. The old order requires its own remedy. A general argument against invalidation for procedural mistakes may be examined under section 292B of the old Act or section 522(1) of the new Act, as applicable. Its scope is a legal question; it is not a universal waiver of limitation or substantive eligibility. Special reapplication is limited and involves an election Rule 181(12) allows specified Form 107 rejections or cancellations to be followed by a qualifying Form 105 reapplication within one month from the end of the order month. It covers specified failures concerning information, hearing opportunities or deed terms; the rule also requires an undertaking against pursuing an appeal and permits one such opportunity. A rejection solely for selecting a wrong clause should not automatically be placed in this facility. Examine whether the actual reasons satisfy the rule. The Department’s manual distinguishes old Form 10AD rejections from this new process. The appeal undertaking makes this a substantive choice. Before giving it, assess whether the application seeks only a fresh period or whether restoration of the earlier filing and approval period is essential. Do not surrender appellate rights merely to use an attractive portal option. Similarly, a fresh application outside this special procedure should not be confused with the rule-defined “reapplication”. Appeals and rectification after rejection A rejection for a wrong clause should be examined promptly for an appeal. Potential grounds, depending on the records, include identifiable substantive compliance, failure to consider a correction request, denial of a proper hearing, incorrect treatment of the commencement date and erroneous construction of the application category. These are arguments to test against the order, not assurances of appellate success. Under the 2025 Act, section 362 includes appeals against specified registration orders and section 354(3) orders. It separately permits condonation of delayed appeals for sufficient cause. This is not the same as giving the original approval authority a general power to condone the underlying filing delay. Old-Act orders require examination under the saved appellate framework. Rectification may be appropriate for a genuinely apparent error, such as an obvious mismatch between the filed record and what the order says. A contested legal interpretation ordinarily requires an appropriate challenge rather than an assumed rectification remedy. A grievance or representation should not be allowed to consume the appeal period; calculate limitation separately from the date and manner of communication of the order. Board level hardship relief and its limits Section 239(3)(b) empowers the Board to authorise delayed applications or relief claims in cases of genuine hardship. For an old-Act matter, section 119(2)(b) and the applicable savings framework require examination. A reasoned representation asking for admission of the delayed approval application is therefore a route to consider, subject to the legal scope of the power and any relevant authorisation. This qualification is essential: the existence of a Board power does not mean every Commissioner already possesses a delegated 80G condonation power. Identify the relevant general or special order, its conditions and the authorised officer. If none applies, a request for Board intervention cannot be described as routine condonation available through Form 105. Section 528 should not be cited casually as the answer. It concerns delay in obtaining approval required from the Central Government or Board, whereas section 354 approval is decided by the Principal Commissioner or Commissioner. Its existence does not automatically solve the present problem. A hardship representation should identify the precise period needing protection, the actual application default, the institution’s diligence and the practical harm. It should seek relief supported by a legal provision rather than an undefined request to “regularise everything”. Judicial review where ordinary remedies are inadequate A writ petition under Article 226 may be considered where a material jurisdictional or procedural issue cannot effectively be resolved through the available process. Counsel should assess the statutory alternative remedy, the nature of the impugned order and the relief sought. Examples of issues for that assessment include refusal to consider a legally available correction, a portal barrier preventing access to the prescribed procedure, absence of a hearing or failure to decide a competent representation. A court order requiring reconsideration is different from an order granting approval for every disputed year. Charitable objects alone do not establish a right to judicial waiver of a statutory deadline. Cases where filing cannot repair the problem Some defects can be corrected for future approval without repairing the earlier period. Others cannot be cured by changing the application category at all. Problem What ordinary fresh filing cannot achieve No activity-free status because operations already began Restart eligibility for provisional approval by declaring that activities have not commenced Late 80G conversion without a competent admission route Give the Commissioner an unexpressed general condonation power Prior registration or approval cancelled by an operative order Erase the cancellation or its factual findings Non-charitable objects or impermissible asset-transfer clauses Establish eligibility merely by selecting a different code Non-genuine activity or fabricated records Convert false facts into a procedural defect Approval sought for an earlier uncovered period Supply retrospective coverage merely through a current-year acknowledgement A finally adverse decision Automatically reopen concluded issues through repeated applications Section 354(1) includes requirements relating to charitable purpose, community or caste restrictions, religious expenditure, assets, accounts and donation reporting. A defect in substantive eligibility must be addressed on its merits. Deed amendment or improved compliance may matter prospectively, but cannot be assumed to rewrite historical conduct. “Uncurable” should therefore be used carefully. It may mean uncurable through ordinary fresh filing, uncurable retrospectively, or uncurable on unchanged facts. A discretionary Board order, successful appeal or judicial direction may still be relevant in some cases. Each such outcome needs an actual legal basis and order. Registration rejection can affect donation approval The Form 105 manual permits section 354 filing where qualifying registration exists, a registration application is pending, or both are sought together. It also states restrictions following registration rejection or cancellation. An old technical rejection with surviving provisional registration and a fresh pending application presents a practical difficulty. Do not assume that the pending filing erases the rejection, or that the manual settles every statutory interpretation. Disclose the orders and seek a reasoned position from the competent authority. Where blocked, preserve the error and pursue resolution without altering the history to obtain portal acceptance. The remedy should match the relief actually needed Consider an institution that applied in time under an incorrect provision, was rejected, and filed correctly after six months. Its registration application should seek competent delay relief where required. For donation approval, first establish whether any donation-approval application was filed at all. If it was timely, preservation or restoration of that filing deserves examination before conceding that the institution simply applied late. If no provisional donation approval existed, the institution can examine fresh regular approval as an operational applicant. If provisional donation approval existed and conversion was missed, assess appeal, Board-level relief and the contested current-year application route. Determine separately what happens to donations received during the disputed period; do not give donors unconditional assurances based only on a pending application. The working file should contain a chronology for each approval, the actual submitted forms and orders, commencement evidence, delay evidence, requested effective periods and the limitation diary for every challenge. That record enables the adviser to identify whether the required cure is procedural correction, admission after delay, reversal of rejection or restoration of an earlier period. A targeted legislative solution In my view, section 354 should contain a reasonable-cause condonation provision comparable to section 332(4), with an express treatment of timely applications rejected for technical classification errors. Such relief can be conditioned on genuine activities, complete disclosure and absence of misrepresentation. A corresponding administrative clarification should explain whether serial number 2 is available after missed provisional conversion and what earlier approval period, if any, can be protected. Clear rules would reduce repeated applications and disputes over portal categories while preserving scrutiny of substantive eligibility. Until that clarity exists, advice must distinguish the direct registration-condonation route from the donation-approval gap. A timely defective application should receive careful scrutiny before it is treated as non-filing; a genuinely late application needs a competent admission mechanism; and a fresh approval should carry only the period that the law and eventual order actually support. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Section 12ABSection 80G Author Info Name: CA Amresh Vashisht Qualification: CA in Practice Location: Meerut, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 179 View full profile → More from CA Amresh Vashisht Mandatory ITAT E-Filing from 1 October 2026: Right to an Effective Appeal October 3, 2026 Decoding Form 10B or Form 10BB: Three Tests Determine Correct Audit Report September 28, 2026 Annual Crisis of 30th September Tax Audit Deadline September 10, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Section 270A Penalty Cannot Survive After Quantum Addition Is Deleted: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Punjab & Haryana HC Quashes AY 2015-16 Reassessment Notices Issued After 1 April 2021 October 6, 2026 Ad Hoc Tenure Filter Cannot Determine Arm’s Length NCD Interest: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Equal-Value Land Exchange Does Not Trigger Section 43CA Addition: ITAT Chennai October 6, 2026 ITAT Delhi Directs 12AB & 80G Approval for Overseas Scholarships Paid in India October 6, 2026 Supreme Court Dismisses Revenue SLP Against 6% Bogus Purchase Addition October 6, 2026