Summary: Two recent orders of the Supreme Court of India provide important guidance on the manner in which the extended limitation and exceptional provisions of Section 74 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act) are to be approached. In M/s G.R. Infra Projects Limited, Ratlam, the Supreme Court held that a Show Cause Notice could not invoke Section 74 merely through a bland reference to “fraud or concealment of facts” without explaining how fraud had been inferred or how concealment had been detected. The Court also declined to permit the Department to supply the missing reasoning through a counter affidavit. In M/s Tata Steel Limited, the Supreme Court again emphasised that the foundational facts supporting fraud, willful misrepresentation or suppression must be evident from the notice itself. The Court further held that proceedings under Sections 73 and 74 can be initiated only on the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer and that an audit objection cannot substitute the officer’s independent satisfaction. The decisions also highlight the distinction between an ITC mismatch or short payment and the conduct necessary to invoke the extended limitation under Section 74. For taxpayers and professionals, the rulings make scrutiny of the SCN at the threshold particularly important, including examination of the applicable limitation, the statutory provision invoked, the factual basis for alleging fraud or suppression, and the connection between those allegations and the tax shortfall or excess ITC. The two decisions therefore reinforce that the statutory words “fraud”, “willful misstatement” or “suppression of facts” cannot by themselves convert Section 74 into a routine limitation-saving mechanism. Table of Contents▸ Introduction 1. G.R. Infra Projects Limited – Civil Appeal No. 11277 of 2026 2. Tata Steel Limited – Civil Appeal arising from SLP (C) No. 16859 of 2026 3. The Common Principle: Section 74 Requires More Than a Label 4. Audit Objection and Independent Satisfaction 5. Practical Takeaways for Taxpayers and Professionals Conclusion Case References Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Two recent orders of the Supreme Court of India provide important guidance on the manner in which the extended limitation and the exceptional provisions of Section 74 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act) are to be approached. The first decision concerns M/s G.R. Infra Projects Limited, Ratlam, while the second, a reportable judgment, concerns M/s Tata Steel Limited. Although the factual settings are different, a common principle runs through both decisions: the invocation of Section 74 cannot rest merely on the mechanical use of expressions such as “fraud”, “willful misstatement” or “suppression of facts”. The notice itself must disclose the foundational facts which support such a conclusion. For professionals advising taxpayers, the decisions are particularly relevant because Section 74 carries an extended limitation period compared with Section 73. The Supreme Court has emphasised that the longer period is not a substitute for the statutory requirement of a proper allegation supported by facts. The Assessing Officer must apply his own mind and arrive at the requisite satisfaction before invoking the extended provision. 1. G.R. Infra Projects Limited – Civil Appeal No. 11277 of 2026 The first matter is M/s G.R. Infra Projects Limited, Ratlam v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. The Supreme Court order records Civil Appeal No. 11277 of 2026, arising out of Special Leave Petition (Civil) No. 33594 of 2025. The record further identifies the impugned High Court proceedings as WP No. 40749/2025 before the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Indore. The Supreme Court pronounced its order on 19 August 2026. The dispute arose from a Show Cause Notice dated 13 June 2025 relating to assessment year 2018-19. The central issue was whether the notice could be treated as one issued under Section 74 of the CGST Act read with the Madhya Pradesh GST Act, thereby attracting the extended period applicable where fraud, willful misstatement or suppression of facts is alleged. The assessee contended that a notice under Section 74 can be issued only where the relevant allegation is actually made out and that such allegation must emerge from the notice itself. The Department sought to rely upon the counter affidavit to elaborate allegations of fraud and suppression. The Supreme Court declined to accept this approach, observing that when the validity of a notice or order is questioned for want of the necessary reasoning or satisfaction, the requirements cannot subsequently be supplied through a counter affidavit. On limitation, the Court examined the statutory framework concerning annual returns and the limitation under Section 73. For the relevant assessment year 2018-19, the due date for furnishing the annual return was ultimately extended to 31 December 2020. The Court also considered the exclusion of the period from 15 March 2020 to 28 February 2022 pursuant to the Supreme Court’s orders in Re: Cognizance for Extension of Limitation, Suo Motu Writ Petition (C) No. 3 of 2020. After giving effect to the applicable exclusion, the Court concluded that the extended period for Section 73 limitation fell on 28 February 2025. The SCN dated 13 June 2025 was therefore beyond the Section 73 limitation. The important question then became whether Section 74 could rescue the notice. The Supreme Court answered in the negative. It found that, apart from a bland statement referring to “fraud or concealment of facts”, the notice did not explain how fraud had been inferred or how concealment had been detected. The Court noted that the notice itself must contain the allegations and circumstances leading to the inference of fraud or suppression. Merely reproducing statutory expressions without setting out the underlying aspects that persuaded the officer to reach that conclusion was held insufficient. The Supreme Court consequently set aside both the High Court’s impugned order and the SCN and directed the State to desist from further proceedings pursuant to the impugned notice. 2. Tata Steel Limited – Civil Appeal arising from SLP (C) No. 16859 of 2026 The second decision is M/s Tata Steel Limited v. Union of India through the Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Ors. The judgment is marked “Reportable” and is identified as 2026 INSC 920. It arises from SLP (Civil) No. 16859 of 2026. The judgment was delivered on 25 August 2026. The case concerned an SCN issued for three financial years, namely 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21, purportedly pursuant to an audit objection raised by the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The SCN was issued under Section 74 of the CGST Act. The appellant contended that the notice did not contain an allegation of fraud, willful misstatement or suppression of facts sufficient to invoke Section 74 and that the normal limitation under Section 73 had expired. An additional feature was that the Assessing Officer had apparently kept the audit objection in the “call book”, meaning that it was kept in abeyance. The Department later issued a notice as the limitation period approached and subsequently revived the proceedings by proposing a protective demand. The Supreme Court noted that the concept of protective assessment or protective demand of the kind proposed was not statutorily provided under the GST Act. The Court laid down a significant principle regarding satisfaction of the Assessing Officer. Proceedings under Sections 73 and 74 can be initiated only on the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer. Even where observations or objections arise from audit, the Assessing Officer must independently enter his satisfaction before issuing the notice. For Section 74, the required satisfaction is not merely that there has been an ITC mismatch or short payment of tax; the officer must also be satisfied that fraud, willful misrepresentation or suppression has led to the mismatch or short payment. The Supreme Court was also not persuaded by reliance on Explanation 2 to Section 74, particularly since the judgment records that the provision stood omitted with effect from 1 November 2024. More importantly, the Court rejected the proposition that proceedings could be regarded as timely merely because they had been initiated before expiry of the Section 73 limitation. The Court explained the distinction between the limitation for issuing a notice and the statutory time limit relating to passing the order under Section 73. On the substance of the SCN, the Court found that the notice contained only a bland statement concerning availment of ITC “without documentary evidence and suppress the facts”, without the foundational facts necessary to establish suppression. The Court stressed that the extended limitation provision is not intended to operate through mere lip service to the statutory expressions. The factual foundation leading to an inference of fraud, willful misrepresentation or suppression must be evident from the notice itself. The SCN and the consequential Order-in-Original dated 26 December 2025 were therefore set aside. However, the Court expressly left liberty to the Department to initiate an appropriate proceeding under Section 74, if thought fit, provided the foundational facts emerged from the notice itself and an order was passed before 28 February 2027. 3. The Common Principle: Section 74 Requires More Than a Label Read together, the two decisions reinforce an important compliance and litigation principle. Section 74 is not attracted merely because the Department uses the statutory vocabulary of “fraud”, “willful misstatement” or “suppression of facts”. The notice must disclose the factual foundation on which the officer has reached the required satisfaction. This is significant because the consequence of invoking Section 74 is not merely procedural: it enables recovery under an extended limitation period. The Supreme Court’s reasoning places emphasis on the SCN as the foundational document. In G.R. Infra, the Court refused to permit the Department to improve the notice through a counter affidavit. In Tata Steel, the Court similarly held that foundational facts supporting the allegation of suppression must be evident from the notice itself. The message is therefore clear: the Department cannot rely upon a later explanation to cure an absence of necessary facts in the original SCN. For taxpayers and their professional advisers, this makes a close reading of the SCN especially important. A notice should be examined not only for the amount proposed to be demanded, but also for the statutory provision invoked, the basis for invoking the extended limitation, the facts alleged to constitute suppression or misrepresentation, and the manner in which the officer has connected those facts with the alleged tax shortfall or excess ITC. 4. Audit Objection and Independent Satisfaction The Tata Steel judgment also brings into focus the relationship between audit observations and adjudication proceedings. The Supreme Court’s observation that the Assessing Officer must enter his own satisfaction is particularly relevant where proceedings originate from an audit objection. An audit observation may provide information or raise a question requiring examination, but the judgment indicates that the statutory satisfaction necessary for Section 74 must be that of the Assessing Officer. The fact pattern recorded in Tata Steel is instructive. The Department had contested the audit objection before the Public Accounts Committee while the SCN was subsequently issued. The Supreme Court considered this circumstance as indicating absence of satisfaction at the Departmental level as to the mismatch or short payment, apart from the alleged suppression. The Court therefore treated the statutory requirement of satisfaction as a substantive requirement rather than a formality. 5. Practical Takeaways for Taxpayers and Professionals First, every Section 74 SCN should be tested for its factual foundation. If the notice simply recites statutory expressions without identifying the conduct or facts constituting fraud, willful misstatement or suppression, the taxpayer has a significant issue to examine. Second, limitation should be independently computed. The G.R. Infra decision demonstrates the importance of identifying the applicable annual-return date, statutory limitation period and any legally applicable exclusion or extension. The Tata Steel judgment similarly undertakes a detailed year-wise examination of the limitation periods for the three financial years involved. Third, an audit objection should not automatically be equated with the Assessing Officer’s satisfaction under Section 74. The officer must independently satisfy himself of the statutory ingredients before issuing the notice. Fourth, a counter affidavit or subsequent departmental explanation cannot ordinarily be treated as a substitute for the contents of the original notice where the notice itself is challenged for absence of the necessary foundation. This makes the drafting and scrutiny of SCNs crucial at the threshold. Fifth, professionals should distinguish between a tax discrepancy and the conduct necessary to invoke the extended limitation. An ITC mismatch or short payment, by itself, is not the same proposition as fraud, willful misrepresentation or suppression leading to that mismatch or short payment. Tata Steel expressly highlights this distinction. Conclusion The Supreme Court’s decisions in G.R. Infra Projects Limited and Tata Steel Limited strengthen the principle that the extended limitation under Section 74 cannot be invoked mechanically. The statutory words must be supported by facts, and those facts must be set out in the SCN itself so that the assessee can understand the precise case it has to meet. For the GST ecosystem, this approach promotes both certainty and discipline. For the Department, it underscores the importance of careful examination and reasoned satisfaction before invoking the exceptional extended period. For taxpayers and professionals, it reinforces the importance of scrutinising an SCN at the threshold—particularly its limitation computation, statutory basis, factual allegations and the connection between the alleged conduct and the tax demand. The two judgments therefore serve as a timely reminder that an extended limitation provision cannot be converted into a routine mechanism merely by inserting the words “fraud”, “willful misstatement” or “suppression of facts”. Where Section 74 is invoked, the foundation for that invocation must be real, specific and apparent from the notice itself. Case References 1. M/s G.R. Infra Projects Limited, Ratlam v. State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. — Civil Appeal No. 11277 of 2026 (@ SLP (C) No. 33594 of 2025); impugned WP No. 40749/2025, High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Indore; Supreme Court order dated 19 August 2026. 2. M/s Tata Steel Limited v. Union of India through the Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Ors. — Civil Appeal arising out of SLP (C) No. 16859 of 2026; 2026 INSC 920; Supreme Court judgment dated 25 August 2026. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTsupreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA L.Gopal Shah Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Komandoor & Co LLP Location: Bhubaneswar, Orissa Articles Published: 8 View full profile → More from CA L.Gopal Shah Proposed GSTAT Procedure Amendments: Analysis of 10 June 2026 Resolutions June 30, 2026 Govt notifies GST effective dates of 44 Changes in GST Law September 30, 2024 Pre deposit under GST Appeal can be made through electronic credit ledger April 14, 2023 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Limitation Periods: Key Deadlines and Events That Start the Clock September 12, 2026 Delhi HC Applies Earlier Section 107 Pre-Deposit Law to Pre-October 2025 SCNs September 12, 2026 Karnataka HC Dismisses Yes Bank KVAT Revision Over Unreported Purchases & Tax Demand September 12, 2026 KVAT refund cannot be denied despite six-month claim period: Karnataka HC September 12, 2026 Calcutta HC Quashes Single GST Notice Covering Multiple Financial Years September 12, 2026 Karnataka HC Grants Anticipatory Bail in CGST Fake Invoice ITC Case September 12, 2026