Summary: An Indian company entering the UAE must carefully evaluate whether to establish a branch of its existing company or incorporate a separate UAE subsidiary. Although both structures can be subject to UAE Corporate Tax, they differ significantly in legal identity, liability exposure, Permanent Establishment treatment, profit attribution, transfer pricing, accounting, VAT registration, profit repatriation and regulatory compliance. A branch remains an extension of the Indian parent, making it suitable for closely integrated operations where the parent wishes to retain direct contractual responsibility. A subsidiary operates as a separate legal entity, offering greater flexibility for independent management, liability segregation, regional expansion, investor participation and eventual business sale. The choice also influences India–UAE tax treaty considerations, foreign tax credit, banking documentation, employee arrangements and intercompany transactions. Businesses should assess their long-term commercial objectives rather than focusing exclusively on initial incorporation costs. A branch may suit a limited or project-based overseas presence, while a subsidiary may provide a stronger platform for substantial UAE operations, regional headquarters and future investment. Table of Contents▸ Introduction The Fundamental Difference: One Company or Two? Why a Foreign Company May Choose a Branch Why Businesses Often Prefer a Subsidiary Corporate Tax: Branch and Subsidiary Can Both Be Taxable A Branch Is Part of the Foreign Parent A Subsidiary Creates Related-Party Transactions Liability: The Difference Can Matter More Than Tax Repatriating Profits: Branch Remittance Versus Dividend India–UAE Tax Treaty Considerations Accounting Treatment Is Also Different VAT Does Not Follow Exactly the Same Logic as Corporate Tax Corporate Tax Registration Should Not Be Treated as Automatic or Identical Foreign Company Branches Have Their Own Regulatory Procedure Banking Can Produce Unexpected Differences Employee Visas and Operational Independence What Happens If the UAE Business Is Sold? A Realistic Example A Common Structuring Mistake When a Branch May Be the Better Choice When a Subsidiary May Be the Better Choice Questions Management Should Answer Before Choosing Conclusion Show all 23 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction When an Indian company decides to enter the UAE, one of the earliest structural decisions is whether to establish a branch of the Indian company or incorporate a separate UAE subsidiary. At first sight, the choice may appear administrative. A branch seems simpler because it is an extension of the existing company, while a subsidiary appears more independent because it is incorporated as a separate legal entity. In practice, however, this decision affects much more than the licence. It can influence: legal liability; UAE Corporate Tax treatment; transfer pricing; repatriation of profits; banking; accounting; regulatory filings; contracts; investor entry; and even the way the Indian parent accounts for its overseas operations. For Indian businesses considering the UAE as a regional base, the branch-versus-subsidiary question therefore deserves to be answered before incorporation, not after operations begin. The right structure depends less on which option appears cheaper at setup and more on what the UAE operation is expected to become over the next several years. The Fundamental Difference: One Company or Two? The most important distinction is legal identity. A UAE branch of a foreign company is generally not a separate juridical person from its overseas parent. The UAE Federal Tax Authority specifically explains that branches of domestic or foreign juridical persons are extensions of their parent or head office rather than separate juridical persons. A subsidiary, by contrast, is a separately incorporated UAE company. This difference has consequences throughout the life of the business. Consider an Indian engineering company entering Dubai. Under a branch structure: Indian Company → UAE Branch The UAE operation remains part of the Indian company. Under a subsidiary structure: Indian Parent Company → UAE Subsidiary Company The UAE entity has its own legal personality. This apparently simple distinction drives many of the tax, liability and compliance differences discussed below. Why a Foreign Company May Choose a Branch A branch can be attractive where the overseas parent wants to conduct substantially the same business in the UAE under its existing corporate identity. For example, an Indian consulting company with an established name, client history and technical credentials may prefer a branch because contracts can be connected directly with the parent company’s track record. A branch may also make commercial sense where: the UAE operation is intended to remain closely controlled by the parent; the parent wants direct responsibility for UAE contracts; no independent UAE shareholders or investors are expected; the UAE activity is part of a wider international project; or the company does not need to create a standalone UAE business for a future sale. The UAE has also liberalised branch establishment. The Ministry of Economy and Tourism states that foreign companies wishing to establish a UAE branch are not required under the Commercial Companies Law to appoint a UAE national sponsor or agent. That removes one historical consideration that previously influenced the choice of structure. Why Businesses Often Prefer a Subsidiary A subsidiary is generally more suitable where the UAE operation is expected to develop into an independent business. Suppose an Indian technology group intends to establish a UAE sales team, employ local staff, sign regional customers, introduce investors later and potentially expand into Saudi Arabia and other GCC markets. A UAE subsidiary may provide a cleaner foundation for that plan. The subsidiary can maintain: its own capital; its own board or management; its own contracts; its own assets and liabilities; separate accounting records; and, subject to applicable rules, its own tax registrations. It is also usually easier to understand commercially: the Indian company owns a UAE company rather than operating directly in the UAE through an extension of itself. That separation can become particularly important when the business grows. Corporate Tax: Branch and Subsidiary Can Both Be Taxable One misunderstanding is that a branch somehow falls outside UAE Corporate Tax because it is not separately incorporated. That is not correct. The UAE Corporate Tax regime applies to foreign juridical persons where, among other circumstances, they operate through a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. The Federal Tax Authority states that a UAE branch of a foreign business will generally be subject to UAE Corporate Tax where the branch gives rise to a UAE Permanent Establishment. The FTA identifies a branch, office, factory or other fixed place through which a non-resident conducts business as examples that can constitute a fixed-place Permanent Establishment, subject to the statutory conditions. A UAE subsidiary follows a different route. Because it is incorporated as a UAE juridical person, it is generally treated as a UAE Resident Person for Corporate Tax purposes and is taxed under the normal UAE Corporate Tax framework. So the distinction is not: Branch = no Corporate Tax Subsidiary = Corporate Tax Rather, the distinction is about who the taxable person is and how the UAE activity fits into the broader corporate structure. A Branch Is Part of the Foreign Parent This point deserves special attention. If an Indian company operates in the UAE through a branch, the UAE branch is not economically and legally detached from the Indian head office in the same way as a subsidiary. The branch’s activities are attributable to the foreign parent. For UAE Corporate Tax purposes, the key question becomes what profits are attributable to the UAE Permanent Establishment. That attribution exercise can be important where the Indian head office and UAE branch both contribute to the same projects. Consider an Indian consulting company where: technical staff in India prepare reports; the Dubai branch finds clients; Dubai staff negotiate contracts; the Indian office provides specialist execution support; and customers pay for one integrated engagement. How much profit belongs to the UAE branch? The answer cannot be determined simply by looking at where the invoice was issued. Functions performed, assets used and risks assumed must be examined. This can make branch profit attribution more technically demanding than many promoters expect. A Subsidiary Creates Related-Party Transactions A subsidiary solves the legal-separation issue, but creates another tax consideration. Because the Indian parent and UAE subsidiary are separate legal entities under common ownership, transactions between them may become related-party transactions. These can include: management fees; software licences; technical services; staff support; procurement services; loans; guarantees; intellectual property charges; and cost allocations. The UAE Corporate Tax regime applies transfer-pricing requirements to transactions with related parties and connected persons, including both domestic and cross-border transactions. India also has its own transfer-pricing regime for international transactions between associated enterprises. Therefore, a subsidiary creates a clearer legal separation, but intercompany dealings must usually be priced on an arm’s-length basis and supported by proper documentation. This is a major practical distinction. With a branch, the issue is often profit attribution between head office and branch. With a subsidiary, the issue is often arm’s-length pricing between two separate related companies. Liability: The Difference Can Matter More Than Tax Tax often receives most of the attention, but legal liability can be even more important. Because a branch is an extension of the foreign company, liabilities arising from branch operations may ultimately attach to the parent company. If the branch signs a substantial UAE construction contract, for example, the Indian company itself is effectively conducting that business through its branch. A subsidiary creates a separate legal entity. Subject to company law, guarantees, misconduct and other exceptions, liabilities are generally contained within the subsidiary rather than automatically becoming direct liabilities of the shareholder. This distinction can matter greatly in industries involving: construction; logistics; manufacturing; healthcare; employment-intensive businesses; product liability; and large customer contracts. A business should therefore not choose a branch merely because incorporation appears administratively simpler without considering what risks the UAE operation will assume. Repatriating Profits: Branch Remittance Versus Dividend Another important difference concerns how money moves back to India. A branch does not distribute a dividend to its head office in the conventional sense because the branch and head office are parts of the same legal entity. Profits generated by the branch can generally be remitted to the head office subject to tax, banking, regulatory and documentary requirements. A subsidiary is different. The subsidiary earns its own profits. If those profits are to be returned to the Indian parent, the payment may take the form of: dividends; repayment of loans; interest; management fees; or other legitimate intercompany payments. Each payment type can have different accounting and tax consequences. The UAE currently does not generally impose withholding tax at a positive rate on many outbound payments under the Corporate Tax regime, but the tax position in India and treaty treatment should still be considered depending upon the payment and recipient. The important point is structural: A branch remits the parent’s own money. A subsidiary distributes or pays money from one legal entity to another. India–UAE Tax Treaty Considerations For an Indian company operating through a UAE branch, the India–UAE Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement becomes relevant because the Indian company may have a Permanent Establishment in the UAE. The treaty framework is designed to determine when business profits can be taxed in the other country and how double taxation should be relieved. Where the UAE branch pays Corporate Tax in the UAE and the same income enters the Indian tax computation of the Indian company, the availability and mechanics of foreign tax credit should be examined under Indian law and the treaty. A subsidiary creates a different pattern. The Indian parent normally does not earn the subsidiary’s operating profit directly. Instead, the Indian company may receive dividends, interest, service income or gains on disposal of shares. That changes the treaty analysis. This is why the same UAE business can create very different Indian tax consequences depending upon whether it is operated through a branch or subsidiary. Accounting Treatment Is Also Different For a branch, the UAE operation remains part of the same legal enterprise. Separate branch accounts may be maintained for operational and tax purposes, but the results ultimately form part of the financial reporting of the parent according to the applicable accounting framework. A subsidiary prepares its own financial statements as a separate company. At parent-company level, the subsidiary may then be consolidated or otherwise accounted for according to the relevant accounting standards. For larger Indian groups, this difference can influence: consolidation; segment reporting; intercompany eliminations; audit procedures; and financial control. The accounting team should therefore be involved in the structural decision rather than being informed after the UAE licence has been issued. VAT Does Not Follow Exactly the Same Logic as Corporate Tax VAT should be examined separately from Corporate Tax. The FTA states that a company with multiple UAE branches does not register each branch separately for VAT. Instead, the branches fall under a single VAT registration for that legal person. A separately incorporated subsidiary is a different legal person. Its VAT registration position must therefore be considered independently, subject to the UAE registration thresholds and tax-group provisions. The FTA currently states that UAE-resident businesses are generally required to register for VAT where taxable supplies and imports exceed the mandatory registration threshold of AED 375,000, while voluntary registration may be available from AED 187,500, subject to the relevant conditions. This creates a practical distinction. Under a branch model, the VAT analysis is connected with the same foreign legal person operating through the UAE establishment. Under a subsidiary model, the UAE company has its own VAT position. Corporate Tax Registration Should Not Be Treated as Automatic or Identical Another practical mistake is assuming that branch and subsidiary registration procedures are identical. They are not necessarily so. A UAE subsidiary, being a UAE-incorporated taxable person, generally requires its own Corporate Tax registration. A foreign company’s UAE branch needs to be considered in the context of the foreign company’s UAE taxable presence and Permanent Establishment. The FTA makes an important distinction between branches of UAE companies and branches of foreign companies. UAE branches of a domestic juridical person are not separately registered because they form part of the same UAE head office. A foreign branch, however, may create a UAE Permanent Establishment for the foreign company and thereby bring the foreign company into the Corporate Tax regime. These technical distinctions should be checked at registration rather than relying solely on the trade licence description. Foreign Company Branches Have Their Own Regulatory Procedure A branch also carries a compliance layer that does not apply in exactly the same way to a normal locally incorporated subsidiary. The UAE Ministry of Economy and Tourism has a specific process for foreign company branch approval and registration. Its published requirements include documents relating to: the foreign company’s incorporation; its legal form and activity; the board decision approving establishment of the UAE branch; authorisation of the representative; and trade-name or initial-approval documentation. The Ministry also states that a foreign establishment must apply for branch registration within one month of issuance of the relevant licence. This illustrates an important point. A branch may avoid creating another shareholder-owned company, but it does not mean “no corporate compliance”. Instead, the compliance is simply of a different nature. Banking Can Produce Unexpected Differences Banking is not purely a tax issue, but it frequently influences the practical choice. A bank reviewing a foreign-company branch may request substantial documentation about the overseas head office, including: incorporation documents; constitutional documents; ownership; financial statements; board resolutions; group structure; business activity; and source of funds. A subsidiary also faces detailed KYC and due-diligence checks, but the bank is assessing a locally incorporated legal entity with an identifiable UAE ownership structure. Neither structure automatically guarantees easier banking. In practice, the stronger option depends on the parent company’s profile, country of incorporation, financial history, expected transactions and nature of UAE business. A large listed or established Indian company may find a branch commercially credible. A newer entrepreneurial business may prefer the clarity of a local subsidiary. Employee Visas and Operational Independence Both structures can potentially employ staff subject to licensing, immigration and labour requirements. However, the subsidiary tends to offer greater operational independence because it operates as its own employer and contracting entity. For businesses planning: substantial UAE hiring; local management; long-term office leases; independent payroll; or regional headquarters functions, the subsidiary model often aligns more naturally with the operational reality. A branch can still support employees and operations, but the legal connection to the parent remains stronger. What Happens If the UAE Business Is Sold? This is one of the most practical long-term questions. Suppose an Indian group establishes a UAE subsidiary and, five years later, a multinational investor offers to acquire the UAE operation. The Indian company may potentially sell the shares of the UAE subsidiary. The business itself can remain intact inside the UAE company while ownership changes. With a branch, there are no shares in the UAE branch to sell because the branch is not a separate company. The business assets, contracts, employees and licences may need to be transferred or reorganised into another entity, subject to legal and regulatory requirements. If a future UAE exit, joint venture or investment round is reasonably possible, this difference can be decisive. A Realistic Example Consider an Indian industrial-equipment manufacturer that wants to enter the UAE. Initially, management expects only: five employees; one sales office; a small warehouse; sales to existing Middle Eastern customers; and full strategic control from India. A branch may initially appear logical. The Indian company wants customers to contract with the established manufacturer itself, and management does not expect outside UAE investors. Now change the facts. Suppose management expects the UAE business to: serve six GCC markets; build a 50-person team; acquire a local distributor; bring in a strategic investor; and eventually become the group’s Middle East headquarters. The same branch structure may now become restrictive. A standalone subsidiary could provide clearer ownership, governance, liability segregation and future investment flexibility. The point is not that a subsidiary is always superior. The point is that the correct structure depends upon what the UAE business is expected to become. A Common Structuring Mistake One recurring mistake is selecting the structure purely from the first-year setup cost. Management may ask: “Which one is cheaper to open?” That is rarely the best starting question. A difference in incorporation or annual licence cost may be insignificant compared with: restructuring costs three years later; transferring customer contracts; changing banking arrangements; moving employees; tax consequences; or obtaining consent from clients and regulators. A structure should therefore be evaluated over the anticipated life of the business. Saving money on incorporation but creating the wrong ownership model can become considerably more expensive later. When a Branch May Be the Better Choice A branch can be commercially appropriate where: the parent company’s name and track record are central to winning contracts; the UAE operation will remain closely integrated with the foreign head office; outside shareholders are unlikely; the business does not need separate legal ownership; the parent accepts direct exposure to UAE operating liabilities; and branch profit attribution can be managed appropriately. Professional services, project-based activities and certain established international businesses may find this model suitable. When a Subsidiary May Be the Better Choice A subsidiary may be preferable where: the UAE operation will become a substantial standalone business; liability separation is important; local or international investors may be admitted; regional acquisitions are contemplated; the UAE business may eventually be sold; independent financing is required; or the business wants a clearly separate UAE balance sheet and governance structure. It is particularly attractive where the UAE company is intended to become more than simply an overseas office of the Indian parent. Questions Management Should Answer Before Choosing Before finalising the structure, an Indian company should answer several practical questions. Will customers contract with the Indian company or with a UAE company? Does the parent want direct legal responsibility for UAE obligations? Will the UAE operation have independent management? Are future investors likely? Could the UAE business eventually be sold separately? How will profits be returned to India? Will significant transactions take place between India and the UAE operation? What tax and transfer-pricing documentation will be required? Does the company expect the UAE operation to remain a small office or become a regional headquarters? Once these questions are answered, the branch-versus-subsidiary decision usually becomes much clearer. Conclusion A UAE branch and a UAE subsidiary can both provide legitimate routes for an Indian company entering the Emirates, but they solve different commercial problems. A branch keeps the UAE operation legally connected to the foreign parent. This can be useful where the parent wants direct operational continuity, but it also means that liability, profit attribution and Permanent Establishment issues remain closely tied to the overseas company. A subsidiary creates a separate UAE legal entity. That can improve liability segregation, governance and investor flexibility, although it introduces its own transfer-pricing, accounting and intercompany-compliance requirements. The tax difference should therefore not be reduced to a comparison of headline Corporate Tax rates. In many cases, both structures ultimately operate within the UAE Corporate Tax system. The real decision is broader: Should the UAE business remain an extension of the Indian company, or should it be built as a company capable of standing on its own? For a small representative or integrated operation, a branch may be entirely appropriate. For a UAE business expected to hire substantially, attract investors, expand regionally or be sold independently in future, a subsidiary may provide a stronger long-term platform. The best structure is usually the one that matches the commercial reality from the beginning, rather than the one that looks simplest on the day of incorporation. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under international taxation Author Info Name: Mandeep Singh Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: KPM GLOBAL Location: Dubai, Dubai Articles Published: 34 View full profile → More from Mandeep Singh India–UAE Holding Structures: FEMA, POEM, Tax Risks and Commercial Benefits October 5, 2026 UAE VAT Implications for Indian Exporters and Service Providers October 4, 2026 Export of Services to UAE: GST Conditions, LUT, Place of Supply & Documentation October 4, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax ITAT Mumbai Quashes Rejection of Form 10AB Based on Incorrect Provisional Approval Status October 8, 2026 Unverified TEP Without Tangible Material Cannot Trigger Reassessment: ITAT Delhi October 8, 2026 ₹6 Lakh Unexplained Property Investment Addition Deleted on Banking Evidence: ITAT Mumbai October 8, 2026 Madras HC Directs Income Tax Department to Decide Complaint on Leakage of ITR Data October 8, 2026 ITAT Chandigarh Deletes Omaxe Cash Allegation for Lack of Corroboration October 8, 2026 ITAT Chandigarh Rejects Enhanced Section 115BBE Tax on 2016 Survey Surrender October 8, 2026