Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 15178 Case Name CIT Vs Palghat Shadi Mahal Trust (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); CIT Vs Palghat Shadi Mahal Trust (Supreme Court of India) Summary: The Supreme Court of India, in Commissioner of Income Tax, Cochin Vs Palghat Shadi Mahal Trust, held that a charitable trust established for the benefit of Muslims generally was not entitled to exemption under Section 11 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, because the restriction contained in Section 13(1)(b) applied to its objects. The Court rejected the trust’s reliance on Explanation 2 to Section 13, notwithstanding that Muslims were notified as a backward community in Kerala. It held that the original trust deed extended its benefits to Muslims without geographical restriction and consequently included beneficiaries outside Kerala who were not covered by the particular backward-class classification relied upon. The Court further held that a subsequent resolution of the trust’s General Body, purporting to make its facilities available to all communities irrespective of religion, caste or creed, could not validly alter the substantive objects contained in the trust deed. Accordingly, the Supreme Court allowed the Revenue’s appeals, set aside the Kerala High Court’s decision and denied exemption under Section 11. The assessee, Palghat Shadi Mahal Trust, was constituted as a public charitable trust through a trust deed executed on 14 April 1975. The settlors were certain Muslim residents of Kerala. The trust was established for constructing and maintaining a Shadi Mahal at Palghat and other institutions intended for the educational, social and economic advancement of Muslims, together with religious and charitable purposes recognised by Muslim law. On 20 April 1975, shortly after the trust’s creation, its General Body passed a resolution stating that the income of the trust and the proposed Shadi Mahal building would be available to all communities without discrimination based on religion, caste or creed. The trust relied upon this resolution to contend that its purposes and activities were not confined to a particular religious community. The trust claimed exemption under Section 11. During the earlier proceedings, the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal concluded that the trust was eligible for exemption by virtue of Explanation 2 to Section 13, which excludes trusts or institutions created for the benefit of Scheduled Castes, backward classes, Scheduled Tribes, women and children from being treated as institutions established for the benefit of a particular religious community or caste for the purposes of Section 13(1)(b). The Tribunal reasoned that Muslims had been notified as a backward community in Kerala. The Kerala High Court upheld that conclusion and answered the substantial question concerning the trust’s exemption entitlement in favour of the assessee. The Revenue challenged the High Court’s decision before the Supreme Court through Civil Appeal Nos. 4294–4303 of 2000. The Revenue argued that the Tribunal and the High Court had overlooked the geographical scope of the trust deed. According to the Revenue, the trust had been constituted for the benefit of Muslims generally, rather than exclusively for Muslims belonging to the backward community notified in Kerala. Its benefits could therefore extend to Muslims residing anywhere in the world. The State-specific backward-class notification could not be used to establish that every potential beneficiary of the trust fell within the protected category contemplated by Explanation 2. Consequently, the Revenue contended that the exception under Explanation 2 could not save the trust from the statutory disqualification under Section 13(1)(b). The trust advanced two principal arguments in response. First, it relied upon the General Body resolution dated 20 April 1975, asserting that the resolution clarified the trust deed and made the benefits of the Shadi Mahal and trust income available universally. The trust pointed to clause (xiv) of its deed, which authorised the General Body of trustees, by majority decision, to determine the meaning and scope of the clauses of the deed. On that basis, the trust submitted that the resolution represented a permissible clarification of its existing objects. Secondly, it contended that the trust operated for the benefit of persons residing in the locality and that its activities should therefore be treated as serving a backward community within Kerala. The Supreme Court examined the relationship between Section 11 and Section 13 of the Income Tax Act. Section 11 provides exemption in respect of qualifying income derived from property held for charitable or religious purposes, subject to statutory conditions. Section 13, however, specifies circumstances in which the exemptions under Sections 11 and 12 are not available. In particular, Section 13(1)(b) denies the benefit of exemption to a charitable trust or institution created or established after commencement of the Act for the benefit of a particular religious community or caste. Explanation 2 provides a specific statutory exception for institutions established for the benefit of Scheduled Castes, backward classes, Scheduled Tribes, women and children. On the interpretation of the trust deed, the Supreme Court observed that the original objects expressly referred to the educational, social and economic advancement of Muslims and to charitable or religious purposes recognised by Muslim law. The subsequent General Body resolution was intended to make the trust’s benefits available to persons of every community. However, the Court distinguished between clarifying the meaning or scope of an existing clause and changing the substantive object of the trust. Clause (xiv) authorised the trustees to determine the meaning and scope of clauses; it did not authorise them to replace or enlarge the purposes for which the settlors had established the trust. The resolution therefore amounted to an impermissible attempt to alter the trust deed’s objects without an amendment executed by the settlors. The Court also rejected the trust’s argument that its actual activities or intended beneficiaries were limited to the local community. It held that the language of the trust deed contained no geographical limitation restricting its beneficiaries to Muslims living in Kerala. The trust’s stated objects could benefit Muslims from all over the world, whereas the backward-class notification relied upon was confined to the position in Kerala. Consequently, it was not possible to treat the trust as one established for the benefit of backward classes within the meaning of Explanation 2 merely because a particular religious community had been notified as backward in one State. The Supreme Court therefore disagreed with the approach adopted by the Tribunal and the High Court. The Supreme Court concluded that the trust attracted Section 13(1)(b) and was consequently not entitled to exemption under Section 11. The question of law was answered in the negative and in favour of the Revenue. Civil Appeal Nos. 4294–4303 of 2000 were allowed, the judgment under challenge was set aside, and the assessee trust was directed to pay the Revenue’s costs of the appeals. The connected Civil Appeal No. 5021 of 2000 involved the same question and was also allowed, but without an order as to costs. The decision establishes two important principles concerning tax exemption for charitable and religious trusts. First, eligibility must be assessed by examining the legally operative objects in the trust deed, rather than treating an unauthorised resolution as an effective amendment. Secondly, where a trust seeks the protection of Explanation 2 to Section 13 on the ground that its beneficiaries belong to a backward class, the actual scope of the beneficiaries under the trust deed must support that claim. A State-specific classification cannot automatically protect a trust whose objects extend to beneficiaries beyond the scope of that classification. The ruling has subsequently been considered in cases examining Section 13(1)(b), charitable trust registration and the legal consequences of amendments to trust objects. FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER These appeals by the Revenue arise upon a certificate of fitness given by the High Court of Kerala. The High Court answered in the affirmative and in favour of the assessee trust the following question: “Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the assessee is charitable institution whose income is exempt under section 11 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 ?” The assessee trust is a public charitable trust. It was constituted under a Trust Deed dated 14th April, 1975. The settlors of the trust were certain Muslim residents of Kerala. They constituted the trust “for the purpose of constructing and establishing at Palghat a Shadi Mahal and other institutions for the educational, social and economic advancement of the Muslims and for religious and charitable objects recognised by Muslim law…” Within a few days of the creation of the trust, i.e., on 20th April, 1975, a special General Body Meeting of the trust was held and it was resolved thus: “It was decided to further clarify the clause in the Trust Deed regarding the purpose of the Trust as mentioned in page-5 of the Trust Deed as:- The income of the Trust as well as the Shadi Mahal Building proposed to be erected shall be made available to all communities irrespective of religion, caste or creed.” Upon this basis, the trust made a claim for exemption from tax under Section 11 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The matter went up to the High Court which restored the appeal to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal with certain directions. Thereafter, the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the trust was entitled to the exemption by virtue of the provisions of the second Explanation to Section 13 of the Act. The High Court, in the judgment and order under challenge, has upheld this finding. Section 11 deals with income from property held for charitable and religious purposes and sets out which income shall not be included in the total income of a trust. It does not apply when the provisions of Section 13 are attracted. Section 13(1)(b) is relevant here, and reads thus: “13(1) Nothing contained in section 11 or section 12 shall operate so as to exclude from the total income of the previous year of the person in receipt thereof– (a) ……………… (b) in the case of a trust for charitable purposes or a charitable institution created or established after the commencement of this Act, any income thereof if the trust or institution is created or established for the benefit of any particular religious community or caste.” The second Explanation to Section 13 reads thus: “Explanation 2. — A trust or institution created or established for the benefit of Scheduled Castes, backward classes, Scheduled Tribes or women and children shall not be deemed to be a trust or institution created or established for the benefit of a religious community or caste within the meaning of clause (b) of sub-section (1).” It is an admitted position that in the State of Kerala the Muslims are notified to be a backward community and it is on that basis that the Tribunal and the High Court held that the trust was entitled to the benefit of the second Explanation to Section 13 and, therefore, the benefit of Section 11. It was contended before us on behalf of the Revenue that the Tribunal and the High Court failed to take into account the fact that the trust provided benefits to Muslims all over the world and not only to the Muslims of Kerala so that it could not be said that the trust was covered by the provisions of the second Explanation to Section 13. On behalf of the trust it was submitted that the resolution of the General Body of the trust passed on 20th April, 1975 operated and that, therefore, the benefits of the trust were not restricted to any particular community or religion. Reliance in this behalf was placed upon clause (xiv) of the Trust Deed which entitles the General Body of the trustees, by majority of the trustees attending the meeting, to “decide the meaning and scope of any of these clauses…” The trust is created for the purposes of establishing institutions for the educational, social and economic advancement of the Muslims and for religious and charitable objects recognised by Muslim law. The resolution of 20th April, 1975 purports to change the object of the trust so that the benefits thereof are made available to all communities, irrespective of religion, caste or creed. This is not deciding the meaning and scope of a clause of the trust deed but an attempt to alter the object of the Trust Deed, which is not contemplated by the said clause (xiv) and is impermissible except by means of an amendment of the Trust Deed by the settlors. It was also contended on behalf of the trust that the trust enures only for the benefit of the residents of the locality and is so used and, therefore, the income of the trust is saved by the second Explanation to Section 13. This contention also ignores the object of the trust which we have set out above. There is no limitation in the Trust Deed in regard to which Muslim can avail of the benefit of the trust. The benefit is available to Muslims from all over the world, none of whom, except in Kerala, are of backward classes. It is, therefore, not possible to accept the view taken by the High Court and the Tribunal that the trust is covered by the second Explanation to Section 13. The trust attracts the provisions of Section 13(1)(b) and is not entitled to exemption under Section 11. The question, therefore, is answered in the negative and in favour of the Revenue. The appeals are allowed and the judgment and order under challenge is set aside. The assessee trust shall pay to be Revenue the costs of the appeals. C.A. No. 5021/2000 : The question raised in this appeal is the question that was raised in C.A. Nos. 4294-4303/2000, which we have just allowed. This appeal is, therefore, allowed and the judgment and order under challenge is set aside. No order as to costs. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under income tax act 1961section 11supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,385 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi ITAT Pune Restricts Unaccounted Cash Addition to Net Profit, Not Gross Receipts October 9, 2026 Section 35(2AB) DSIR Approval Conditions Binding on Apollo Tyres: Kerala HC October 9, 2026 Fresh Section 143(2) Notice After Revised Return Mandatory: ITAT Mumbai October 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax MAT under Income-tax Act, 2025: Lower Rate, No Credit & A Narrow door for Old Balance October 8, 2026 ITAT Panaji Allows Section 80P Deduction on Union Bank Business Deposits October 8, 2026 On-Money Addition Cannot Rest on an Uncorroborated Third-Party Excel Sheet: ITAT Rajkot October 8, 2026 BSNL VRS Ex-Gratia: ITAT Rajkot Condones Delay, Restores Section 10(10B) Claims October 8, 2026 DCIT Assessment Without Pecuniary Jurisdiction Quashed by ITAT Kolkata October 8, 2026 ITAT Mumbai Deletes On-Money Additions Based on Loose Papers October 8, 2026