Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Incorporate alternate means of identification for aadhar authentication Summary: The Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Department of Food and Public Distribution, through the Warehousing Development and Regulatory Authority (WDRA), has issued Notification S.O. 5069(E) dated 14 September 2026 concerning voluntary Aadhaar authentication for identity verification of depositors, warehousemen and other stakeholders. The notification records that the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, after consultation with the Unique Identification Authority of India, had permitted WDRA and its regulated repositories to perform Aadhaar authentication for establishing the identity of Aadhaar number holders. Authentication may be used for onboarding depositors, warehousemen and others on the WDRA portal and regulated repository platforms through Aadhaar e-KYC, and for performing service transactions on such platforms. Aadhaar authentication is expressly voluntary. WDRA and its regulated repositories must obtain the Aadhaar number holder’s consent and cannot deny services where a person refuses or is unable to undergo Aadhaar authentication. Alternate and viable means of identification specified include PAN, Driving Licence, Passport, a photograph-bearing Address Card issued by the Department of Posts, specified photograph-bearing post office or public sector scheduled bank passbooks, Kisan Passbook and Voter Identity Card. The notification supersedes Notification S.O. 698(E) dated 10 February 2023, except regarding things already done or omitted before supersession, and takes effect from the date of publication in the Official Gazette. MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS, FOOD AND PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION (Department of Food and Public Distribution) (WAREHOUSING DEVELOPMENT AND REGULATORY AUTHORITY ) NOTIFICATION New Delhi, the 14th September, 2026 S.O. 5069(E).— Whereas, the use of Aadhaar number to establish identity enables individuals to receive subsidies, benefits and services in a convenient and seamless manner, obviates the need for multiplicity of documents to establish identity, simplifies processes and promote transparency and efficiency: And whereas the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of India, after consultation with the Unique Identification Authority of India, had allowed vide its letter no. F. No. 13(17)/2022-EG-II, dated 9thJanuary 2023 to the Department of Food and Public Distribution, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Government of India for the purposes prescribed under sub-rule (1) of rule 3 of the Aadhaar Authentication for Good Governance (Social Welfare, Innovation, Knowledge) Rules, 2020 (hereafter referred to as the said rules) that Warehousing Development and Regulatory Authority (WDRA) and its regulated repositories may be allowed to perform authentication and be permitted the use of Aadhaar number during authentication for establishing identity of Aadhaar number holder and notify the same under rule 5 of the said rules read with sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub-section (4) of section 4 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 (18 of 2016)(hereinafter referred to as the said Act): And whereas, the Aadhaar authentication shall be performed for identity verification of depositors, warehousemen and stakeholders as prescribed under sub-rule (1) of rule 3 of the said rules and the performance of Aadhaar authentication for the said purpose shall be on voluntary basis and Warehousing Development and Regulatory Authority and its regulated repositories shall perform Aadhaar authentication solely for the purposes given below, with effect from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette, namely:—— a. Onboarding of depositors, warehouseman and others on WDRA portal and its regulated repositories platform through aadhaar e-KYC; b. performing service transactions on WDRA portal and its regulated repositories. Now, therefore, in pursuance of rule 5 of the said rules,read with sub-clause (ii) of clause (b) of sub­section (4) of section 4 of the said Act and in supersession of the Notification of Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution,S.O 698 (E) dated 10.02.2023 published in Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part-II, Section 3, Sub Section(ii), except as respects things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government thereby notifies the following, namely:—— 1. (1) The Warehousing Development and Regulatory Authority and its regulated repositories, as provided in the said Act, shall obtain the consent of the Aadhaar number holder for the purpose of authentication herein. (2) As per sub-rule (2) of rule 3 of the said rules, Aadhaar authentication is on voluntary basis, the Warehousing Development and Regulatory Authority and its regulated repositories shall inform the Aadhaar number holder of alternate and viable means of identification and shall not deny any service to the Aadhaar number holder for refusing to, or being unable to, undergo Aadhaar authentication, namely:—— a. PAN; b. Driving Licence; c. Passport; d. Address Card with photograph issued by Department of Posts, Government of India; e. Current Passbook of Post Office or any Public Sector Scheduled Bank having photograph; (f ) Kisan Passbook having photograph; (g) Voter Identity Card. This notification shall come into effect from the date of its publication in the official Gazette. [F.. No. 15/2021-Stg.II] ANITA KARN, Addl. Secy. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Aadhaar Number Card Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Multiple Cheques Create Separate Causes of Action under Section 138 of NI Act: SC September 23, 2026 PIL Cannot Become Proxy Tender Dispute Between Rival Bidders: SC September 23, 2026 Advocate Gets 15-Day Jail for Baseless “Match-Fixing” Allegation: Karnataka HC September 23, 2026 Cross-FIR Not Automatic Merely Because Complaint Is Counter-Version: Delhi HC September 23, 2026 Expired Railway Way Leave Cannot Be Revived Through Resolution Plan: Calcutta HC September 23, 2026 Supreme Court Upholds Service Tax Exemption for IIT Patna and NIT Rourkela September 23, 2026