IFSC SETTLEMENT MECHANISMS - A S UDY WITH RECOMMENDATIONS FOR GIFT IFSC \il(fi",q €6P<t41 ft~CI ~ THE INSTITUTE OF Company Secretaries of India 'N ItU."UIT OF JJROF.~~'ONAL •• ~.LL.NC. Statutory body under an Act of Paliiament (Under the jurisdiction of Ministry of Corporate Affairs) 1(51 House, 22, Institutional Area, Lodi Road, New Delhi 110 003 tel 011-4534 1000 email info@icsi.edu website www.icsi.edu INTRODUCTION Regula tors settle cases to resolve alleged violations quickly and save the time a nd hig h costs of forma l, d r wn-out lit igation. Key Reasons for Settlement are that settlements help free up regulatory b nd width and taxpayer oney by a voiding long 0 Jrtroo battles. Settlements provide faster commercial certainty and closure for businesses and markets. As per most settlement mechanisms, entities can reso lve disputes without a formal admission or de nial of wrongdoing. These mechanisms also allow regulators to secure monetary payments, investor restitution, or corrective actions efficiently. Mature regulators across jurisdictions, including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), routinely rely on negotiated settlements as part of modern enforcement strategy. Litigation is expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain. While India domestic has a robust settlement mechanism for securities markets, courtesy SEBi [whkh is under thorough review of SEBi at present -As fJ r th Jraf Settlem I t Re'!ulatlons (i LJed for c nsuttdtil I y SEBI) SEBI has rebranded 'Summary Settlement' and calling it 'Fast Track Settlement' now), the international services centre at GIFT CITY needs one. <;pvpr;lJ (;lrop ror or;ltpc ;lnn m;lrkpt intprmprii;lripc hClvP II<;pn thp ~pttlpmpnt route in India to resolve disclosure-related proceedings, delayed filings, broker compliance issue~, and procedurai violation~ without prolonged reput a ti onal warfare. In such matters, settlement has often allowed businesses to undertake corrective measures while avoiding years of uncertainty. The SEBI settlement mechanism has also proved useful in cases where violations were not necessarily fraudulent but arose from ambiguity in regulatory interpretation, e.g. disputes relating to takeover disclosures, inadvertent insider trading window violations, or delayed compliance reporting have fr qu ntly been r solved through s ttlement. This re se a rc h study atte mpts to do a deep dive into sim il r settl menL mechanism at Dubai and also attempts a cursory comparison into other similar inte rnationa l finance centres like Singapore. Hon Kong, Luxembour etc. The material for these has been sourced from the settlement architecture of each regulator. Towards the end, this study has attempted to provide a draft settlement regulations for IFSCA to consid er. We hope this paper spurs further research into the subject and is a starting point for the settlement architecture for the securities markets at the IFSC. CONTENTS ... Chapter No . 1 Particulars ,-­ A deep dive into the Settlement Proceedings under the DFSA Regime Page No. 1 2 Securities & Futures Commission (SFC) - Hong Kong 38 3 4 5 Luxembourg (CSSF) -­ Settlement Regulations in the UK (FCA) D etailed SEBI vis MAS Comparative Matri x 51 54 60 6 Com <> , par a jv~ research Repo t 67 I 7 iSali ent featur~s :)f SEBI 'r Propose Settlement 109 I Scheme 1 I I 123 I I I I)ugge~ e Regul ations I I Schedules