Summary: State Bank of India offers retail domestic term deposits across multiple tenures. Deposit returns depend on the rate applicable on the booking date, tenure, depositor category and payout/compounding option. SBI’s published historical/current-rate material and depositor-rights documents should be checked immediately before placement because rates can change. Premature withdrawal can attract a penalty and may result in interest being recalculated for the actual period the deposit remained with the bank. Interest is taxable under Indian income-tax law, with TDS obligations depending on current statutory thresholds and the depositor’s facts. Eligible bank deposits are covered by DICGC only up to the statutory limit and subject to aggregation rules; deposit insurance should not be described as unlimited protection. Table of Contents▸ SBI Retail Term Deposit: Interest, Premature Withdrawal, TDS & DICGC Rules How an SBI Term Deposit Works Interest Rates Must Be Checked on Booking Date Premature Withdrawaldepositfixed DICGC Protection Income-Tax and TDS Practical Depositor Checklist FAQs Key Takeaways Show all 9 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); SBI Retail Term Deposit: Interest, Premature Withdrawal, TDS & DICGC Rules How an SBI Term Deposit Works A depositor places a fixed amount for a selected tenure and earns interest according to the rate applicable to that deposit. Cumulative and periodic-interest structures can produce different cash-flow outcomes even where the headline annual rate is the same. Interest Rates Must Be Checked on Booking Date SBI publishes tenure-wise domestic term-deposit rates. Because rates change, a TaxGuru article should not treat an old rate table as a continuing promise. The operative rate is the rate applicable under SBI’s official schedule and product terms when the deposit is booked. Premature Withdrawaldepositfixed SBI’s published senior-citizen/depositor material states a premature-withdrawal penalty framework of 0.50% for retail term deposits up to ₹5 lakh and 1% for deposits above ₹5 lakh but below ₹2 crore, subject to current terms. Interest can be recalculated based on the period the money actually remained with the bank and the applicable penal adjustment. Depositors should verify the current rule before breaking an FD. DICGC Protection Deposits with insured banks are covered by DICGC up to the statutory insurance ceiling per depositor per bank, aggregating eligible principal and interest across accounts in the same right and capacity. Splitting deposits across branches of the same bank does not create separate insurance limits. The current DICGC ceiling should be verified from DICGC before publication or deposit placement. Income-Tax and TDS FD interest is taxable according to the depositor’s applicable income-tax position. TDS by banks is only a collection mechanism and does not determine final tax liability. Current thresholds, rates, PAN consequences and Form 15G/15H eligibility must be checked under the Income-tax Act, 2025 and rules applicable to Tax Year 2026-27. Senior citizens should separately examine the current successor provision corresponding to the earlier Section 80TTB framework. Practical Depositor Checklist Check SBI’s official rate table on the booking date. Match tenure with liquidity needs before chasing a higher rate. Understand premature-withdrawal penalty and recalculation rules. Keep nomination updated. Check DICGC aggregation rather than assuming each FD is separately insured. Include accrued/received interest correctly in the tax return and reconcile TDS records. FAQs 1. Is an SBI FD rate fixed for the booked tenure? The contracted rate generally applies subject to the deposit terms, but premature withdrawal can cause recalculation and penalty. 2. Does DICGC insure every SBI FD without limit? No. Coverage is subject to the statutory per-depositor-per-bank ceiling and aggregation rules. 3. Does TDS mean no further tax is payable? No. TDS is a withholding mechanism; final tax depends on total taxable income and applicable law. 4. Can Form 15G/15H always stop TDS? No. The declarant must satisfy the statutory eligibility conditions. 5. Is a senior-citizen rate automatically available to everyone above a certain age? Eligibility and documentation are governed by SBI’s current terms and should be verified. 6. What happens if an FD is broken early? Interest may be recalculated for the actual period and a premature-withdrawal penalty may apply. 7. Are deposits at different SBI branches separately insured? Not merely because they are at different branches; DICGC aggregation applies per depositor per bank in the same right and capacity. Key Takeaways Verify the rate on SBI’s official website on the actual booking date. Premature withdrawal can materially reduce effective return. DICGC protection is capped and aggregated, not unlimited. FD interest is taxable; TDS is not the final tax. Liquidity, tenure and tax should be considered together. ****** Disclaimer: This article is solely for general informational and educational purposes and is not investment, financial, banking, legal, tax or accounting advice or a recommendation to place, renew, break or switch a fixed deposit. Deposit rates, terms, penalties, taxation and regulations can change. Readers must verify the latest official SBI terms and applicable law before acting. Bank deposits are subject to applicable DICGC coverage limits and conditions; insurance coverage is not a guarantee that every amount or circumstance is fully protected. Premature withdrawal may reduce returns. Tax consequences depend on individual facts. TaxGuru is not SBI, a bank, broker, distributor or investment adviser merely by publishing this article. TaxGuru, its owners, management, editors, authors, employees and associated persons accept no responsibility or liability for any loss, default, delay, reduced return, tax consequence, decision or action arising directly or indirectly from reliance on or use of this article. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Fixed Deposit Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,891 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi HDFC Nifty 50 Index Fund: Features, Costs, Taxation & Investor Risks October 4, 2026 LIC New Tech-Term Plan 954: Features, Tax Benefits, GST & Claim Rules October 4, 2026 Ethereum (ETH): How It Works and India Tax, TDS & Compliance Rules October 4, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance HDFC Nifty 50 Index Fund: Features, Costs, Taxation & Investor Risks October 4, 2026 LIC New Tech-Term Plan 954: Features, Tax Benefits, GST & Claim Rules October 4, 2026 Ethereum (ETH): How It Works and India Tax, TDS & Compliance Rules October 4, 2026 DLF achieves complete sell-out of The Aureva with sales nearing ₹1985 crore October 4, 2026 Top 10 Gold (XAU/USD) Trading Apps in India (2026) October 4, 2026 Aurobindo Pharma secures USFDA approval for Perampanel tablets in multiple strengths October 3, 2026