Summary: A demand under Section 74 of the CGST Act for periods up to FY 2023-24 requires a statutory show-cause notice as the foundation of adjudication. Investigation, summons, statements, correspondence, personal hearing or FORM GST DRC-07 cannot independently substitute the notice contemplated by Section 74(1). This issue assumes significance in light of the reported GSTAT Kolkata decision in Partha Tribedi, Proprietor of M/s Tribedi Enterprise v. Vivek Ranjan, Assistant Commissioner, Bureau of Investigation, North Bengal, Raiganj, reported as 2026-VIL-111-GSTAT-KOL and stated to have been decided on 22 September 2026. According to the supplied material, the Tribunal held that proceedings could not be sustained where the statutory Section 74(1) notice had not been served before determination of the demand. The distinction between substantive notice, DRC-01 and DRC-07 is critical: DRC-01 is the prescribed electronic summary of the notice, whereas DRC-07 is the summary of the adjudication order and resulting demand. A taxpayer facing such proceedings should therefore reconstruct the entire procedural chronology and determine whether a substantive SCN was actually issued and served, what allegations it contained, whether relied-upon material was supplied, and whether the final order remained within the case proposed in the notice. Section 74 applies to determinations relating to periods up to FY 2023-24; Section 74A governs the corresponding framework from FY 2024-25 onwards. Table of Contents▸ When a GST Demand Starts at the End: Why a DRC-07 Cannot Replace a Show-Cause Notice Under Section 74 The Dispute in Context Can Investigation or DRC-07 Substitute the Statutory SCN? What Section 74 Required What Should a Proper Section 74(1) Notice Contain? The Reported GSTAT Kolkata Ruling Practical Implications of the Ruling Why FORM GST DRC-07 Cannot Cure the Defect DRC-01 vs DRC-07 Illustration: ITC Investigation Followed by DRC-07 Events During Investigation Possible Taxpayer Objection Natural Justice Is Not an Empty Formality What Must the Taxpayer Know to Defend the Demand? Relevance of the Ruling for Taxpayers Documents a Taxpayer Should Preserve Relevance for GST Professionals Section 74 Procedural Review Checklist Suggested Appeal Ground: Absence of Mandatory Section 74(1) SCN A Necessary Caution: Different SCN Defects Have Different Consequences Section 74 Applies Only Up to FY 2023-24 Conclusion Show all 22 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); When a GST Demand Starts at the End: Why a DRC-07 Cannot Replace a Show-Cause Notice Under Section 74 A demand under the erstwhile Section 74 of the CGST Act cannot be sustained merely because the Department conducted an investigation, issued summons, granted a hearing, or uploaded FORM GST DRC-07. The statutory show-cause notice is the event that lawfully commences adjudication; without it, the demand lacks the procedural and jurisdictional foundation required by the Act. This issue has gained practical importance following the reported decision of the GST Appellate Tribunal, Kolkata, in Partha Tribedi, Proprietor of M/s Tribedi Enterprise v. Vivek Ranjan, Assistant Commissioner, Bureau of Investigation, North Bengal, Raiganj. The ruling is reported as 2026-VIL-111-GSTAT-KOL, decided on 22 September 2026. The Tribunal reportedly found that proceedings could not be sustained where no statutory show-cause notice under Section 74(1) had been served before demand determination. The Dispute in Context Investigations under GST frequently begin with a search, inspection, summons, statements, document requisitions, stock verification, ITC verification, or scrutiny of e-way bills and GSTR data. In some matters, the taxpayer also deposits an amount during the investigation stage—voluntarily or otherwise. Thereafter, departmental communications sometimes create an impression that the taxpayer already knows the allegations and that a formal notice is unnecessary. A taxpayer may have appeared before the officer, furnished documents, attended a personal hearing, or responded through the portal. Finally, an order is passed and its summary is uploaded in FORM GST DRC-07. Can Investigation or DRC-07 Substitute the Statutory SCN? The legal question is straightforward: Can the Department treat investigation material, summons, correspondence, hearing opportunity, or DRC-07 as a substitute for the show-cause notice mandated by Section 74(1)? The reported GSTAT Kolkata answer is no. A valid adjudication under Section 74 must begin with the statutory notice itself. What Section 74 Required Section 74 governed determination of tax for the periods up to FY 2023-24 where the Department alleged that tax had not been paid, short-paid, erroneously refunded, or ITC had been wrongly availed or utilised by reason of fraud, wilful misstatement, or suppression of facts to evade tax. The opening words of Section 74(1) are material. Where the proper officer forms the prescribed opinion, the officer: “Shall serve notice” on the person chargeable with tax, requiring that person to show cause why the amount specified in the notice, together with interest and penalty, should not be paid. Thus, issuance and service of a show-cause notice are not optional administrative steps. They are the prescribed statutory method by which the Department communicates its proposed demand and calls upon the taxable person to defend it. The statutory text itself makes service of notice mandatory. What Should a Proper Section 74(1) Notice Contain? A proper Section 74(1) notice should ordinarily disclose: The tax period involved; The precise transaction or category of transactions under dispute; The nature of alleged tax short payment, wrongful refund, or wrongful availment/utilisation of ITC; The computation of tax, interest, and penalty proposed; The documents, statements, data, and material relied upon; The grounds for alleging fraud, wilful misstatement, or suppression of facts; The basis on which the Department alleges intention to evade tax; and The period available for the taxpayer to file a response and seek a personal hearing. A vague communication asking the taxpayer to explain an issue is not necessarily a Section 74(1) notice. The real test is whether the document communicates a definite proposed demand and gives the taxpayer a meaningful opportunity to answer the case that the Department proposes to adjudicate. The Reported GSTAT Kolkata Ruling In Partha Tribedi, the GSTAT Kolkata reportedly examined proceedings where investigation-related actions had taken place, but the statutory Section 74(1) SCN was absent. The Tribunal treated the SCN as the starting point and foundation of the demand proceedings, rather than a procedural formality that can be reconstructed from subsequent events. Practical Implications of the Ruling An investigation establishes or collects material; it does not adjudicate liability. A summons may compel attendance, require production of documents, or facilitate recording of a statement; it is not a proposal for tax, interest, and penalty under Section 74. A personal hearing gives an opportunity to meet a charge already framed; it cannot itself frame or retrospectively validate a charge. An adjudication order must decide the notice; it cannot supply the notice that should have preceded it. DRC-07 communicates a summary of the order and resulting liability; it cannot become the legal source of the original demand. In other words, the Department cannot begin at the end. A DRC-07 may disclose what has been determined, but it cannot tell the taxpayer, for the first time after adjudication, what case the taxpayer was required to answer before adjudication. Why FORM GST DRC-07 Cannot Cure the Defect FORM GST DRC-07 has a defined place in the GST framework. It is the summary of the order creating or confirming the demand. It is not a show-cause notice and is not designed to perform the functions of a notice. TaxGuru’s discussion of service of GST notices and orders similarly distinguishes DRC-01 as the summary of notice and DRC-07 as the summary of order. Stage Purpose Legal Effect Investigation/search/summons Collection and verification of evidence May lead to a proposed demand but does not create one Section 74(1) SCN Communicates the proposed demand and calls for a defence Starts statutory adjudication FORM GST DRC-01 Summary of the notice uploaded electronically under Rule 142 Accompanies/summarises the notice; does not replace it Reply / FORM GST DRC-06 Taxpayer’s factual and legal response Places defence before the proper officer Personal hearing Oral opportunity to explain, clarify, and contest Supports natural justice after the case is disclosed Adjudication order Decision on the allegations in the SCN Determines liability, subject to appeal FORM GST DRC-07 Summary of the adjudication order and demand Records the concluded demand; cannot initiate it DRC-01 vs DRC-07 The distinction between DRC-01 and DRC-07 is therefore critical. Even DRC-01 is the prescribed electronic summary of the notice. A DRC-07 stands further downstream: it is the summary of the final order. Neither form can replace the substantive show-cause notice contemplated by Section 74(1). The distinction between the substantive notice and its summary has also received judicial attention. In Duttcon Consultant and Engineers Private Limited Vs Assistant Commissioner of State Tax, the Calcutta High Court dealt with summary DRC-01 and DRC-07 proceedings and the requirement for a reasoned statutory process. Illustration: ITC Investigation Followed by DRC-07 Consider a registered person engaged in trading electrical goods. Officers conduct a search and allege that the taxpayer availed ITC from certain suppliers who were found non-existent or non-compliant. Events During Investigation The taxpayer receives summons and produces purchase registers, e-way bills, bank statements, and stock records. The taxpayer’s statement is recorded. The taxpayer is asked to explain selected ITC entries. The taxpayer attends a hearing after receiving a departmental e-mail. The taxpayer later finds a DRC-07 on the portal, demanding tax, interest, and penalty under Section 74. Assume no statutory SCN under Section 74(1) was issued or served. There is no document containing the precise ITC computation, invoice-wise allegations, relied-upon statements, basis for treating suppliers as non-genuine, and reasons for alleging suppression or fraudulent availment. In such a case, the taxpayer’s objection is not merely that the notice was imperfectly drafted. The objection is that the taxpayer was never formally called upon to show cause against the particular demand ultimately confirmed. Possible Taxpayer Objection “The proceedings are void because no notice under Section 74(1) was served. The summons and investigation correspondence did not state the proposed tax, interest and penalty in the manner required by law, did not set out the specific grounds for invoking Section 74, and did not furnish an effective opportunity to answer the case. FORM GST DRC-07, being only a summary of the concluded order, cannot cure the absence of the statutory initiating notice.” This is a stronger ground than a routine complaint about inadequate hearing. It goes to the validity of the very proceeding that culminated in the order. Natural Justice Is Not an Empty Formality A show-cause notice serves two interconnected purposes. First, it satisfies the statutory command under Section 74(1). The officer must issue notice before determining a demand under the fraud/suppression route. Second, it gives practical content to principles of natural justice. What Must the Taxpayer Know to Defend the Demand? A taxpayer cannot effectively defend a case unless the taxpayer knows: What precise allegation is made; What period is involved; Which documents and data are relied upon; What tax and ITC computation is proposed; Why the Department invokes fraud, wilful misstatement, or suppression; and Why penalty equal to tax is proposed under Section 74. A hearing without a clear notice can be illusory. A person may be heard, but cannot meaningfully answer a case that was never properly put to that person. The GSTAT ruling is therefore relevant not only for procedural compliance but also for the taxpayer’s substantive right to contest the proposed demand on facts, law, limitation, classification, valuation, ITC eligibility, taxability, and the higher threshold necessary for invoking Section 74. The statutory language of Section 74 specifically requires fraud, wilful misstatement, or suppression of facts to evade tax; a mere adverse view on eligibility or classification does not automatically establish those elements. Relevance of the Ruling for Taxpayers For taxpayers, the decision offers a practical defence in investigation-driven demands, particularly where the Department has moved rapidly from enquiry to recovery or adjudication. The taxpayer should not assume that the presence of a summons, statement, portal intimation, or DRC-07 means that a valid demand proceeding was necessarily initiated. The documents should be checked separately. Documents a Taxpayer Should Preserve All notices received physically, by e-mail, and on the GST portal; The complete “Additional Notices and Orders” portal history; Copies of summons and investigation letters; Replies submitted during investigation; Hearing notices and hearing records; The adjudication order and DRC-07; Any proof showing that a Section 74(1) SCN was never received or uploaded; Any request made for relied-upon documents or cross-examination; and A screenshot-based chronology of communication and portal events. This documentary reconstruction is essential because the Department may contend that the taxpayer participated in the proceedings, had actual knowledge, or was granted a hearing. The taxpayer must distinguish knowledge of an investigation from service of a statutory show-cause notice. Participation may be relevant in a dispute about a curable service defect in a validly issued notice. It does not necessarily answer the larger question where the statutory notice was never issued at all. Relevance for GST Professionals For GST practitioners, tax advocates, and authorised representatives, the ruling suggests that the first examination in every Section 74 order should be a procedural chronology, not merely the tax computation. Section 74 Procedural Review Checklist Question Why It Matters Is there a separate Section 74(1) SCN? Absence may invalidate the initiation of adjudication Was it served on the taxpayer? Service is expressly mandated by Section 74(1) Does it quantify tax, interest, and penalty? The taxpayer must know the proposed liability Does it state the factual basis and relied-upon evidence? Necessary for an effective defence Does it specifically allege fraud, wilful misstatement, or suppression with intent to evade? Section 74 cannot be invoked merely by using labels Is DRC-01 only a summary, or is it being relied on as the notice itself? The electronic summary cannot replace the statutory SCN Does the order travel beyond the SCN? An order cannot confirm a new case not proposed in the notice Is the DRC-07 being used as evidence of initiation? DRC-07 follows the order; it cannot retrospectively validate initiation Were relied-upon documents supplied? Non-supply may independently violate natural justice Was the order passed within statutory limitation? Limitation remains a separate and important challenge The issue should be specifically pleaded in an appeal under Section 107 and, where circumstances justify it, in a writ petition challenging a demand founded on a complete absence of statutory notice. The appropriate remedy will depend on the factual record, the remedy available, limitation, recovery action, and whether the defect is apparent from undisputed documents. Suggested Appeal Ground: Absence of Mandatory Section 74(1) SCN The following may be adapted after verifying the actual record: Ground: Absence of mandatory show-cause notice under Section 74(1) The impugned order is without jurisdiction and liable to be set aside because no show-cause notice under Section 74(1) of the CGST Act was issued and served upon the appellant. The statutory notice is the mandatory foundation for initiation of proceedings under Section 74. Summons, investigation correspondence, internal communications, hearing notices, or portal entries cannot substitute the notice required by Section 74(1). FORM GST DRC-07 is merely a summary of the order and the demand determined thereunder. It cannot cure the absence of the initiating statutory notice or retrospectively confer jurisdiction upon the adjudicating authority. In the absence of a notice setting out the proposed tax, interest, penalty, factual basis, relied-upon material, and grounds for invocation of Section 74, the appellant was denied a meaningful opportunity to meet the case. The proceedings are consequently vitiated by statutory non-compliance and breach of principles of natural justice. A Necessary Caution: Different SCN Defects Have Different Consequences This proposition should be used carefully. The case is strongest where there is genuinely no Section 74(1) SCN at all—not merely where the notice is brief, imperfect, or disputed on service. Further, a taxpayer should not conflate the following situations: No SCN was ever issued; SCN was issued but not properly served; SCN was issued and served but was vague or unsupported by relied-upon documents; DRC-01 was uploaded without a substantive SCN; The order confirmed a demand beyond the SCN; and The Department invoked Section 74 without establishing fraud, wilful misstatement, or suppression with intent to evade tax. Each defect may have a different evidentiary basis and legal consequence. They may, however, be pleaded cumulatively where supported by the record. Section 74 Applies Only Up to FY 2023-24 It is also important to identify the tax period. Sections 73 and 74 apply to determination relating to periods up to FY 2023-24. For FY 2024-25 onwards, the demand framework is governed by Section 74A of the CGST Act. Therefore, the procedural objection and statutory provision must be matched to the financial year involved rather than applying Section 74 indiscriminately to later periods. Conclusion The reported GSTAT Kolkata ruling in Partha Tribedi reinforces a basic but often overlooked proposition: adjudication cannot be built without its statutory foundation. A search may reveal material. A summons may compel attendance. An investigation may create suspicion. A hearing may allow oral submissions. An order may determine liability. DRC-07 may communicate that liability. But none of these can replace the notice that the statute requires before a person can be called upon to pay tax, interest, and penalty under Section 74. For taxpayers, the decision is a reminder to insist on the statutory record before responding only on merits. For professionals, it is a reminder that every demand should first be tested through the procedural chain: Investigation → Section 74(1) SCN → DRC-01 Summary → Reply → Hearing → Order → DRC-07 If the Section 74(1) SCN is missing, the defect is not a minor procedural lapse. It affects jurisdiction, deprives the taxpayer of an informed opportunity of defence, and can vitiate the adjudication itself. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: S PRASAD Qualification: Graduate Company: S.PRASAD AND CO Location: Mysuru, Karnataka Articles Published: 163 View full profile → More from S PRASAD GST Audit Adjudication, Proper Officer Jurisdiction and Hearing Rights September 23, 2026 DRC-01 Cannot Replace Valid GST Show-Cause Notice: GSTAT Lucknow September 21, 2026 GST Analytics-Based Demands: Why Bona Fide Taxpayers Need Fair Adjudication September 21, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST on UPI Payments? Understanding MDR, 18% GST and Who Bears Cost September 27, 2026 Rule 86B Decoded: 6 Exceptions When 99% ITC Restriction Does Not Apply September 27, 2026 ₹16.47 Crore GST Recovery Stayed Pending Section 74 Challenge: Bombay HC September 27, 2026 Employee Canteen Recovery Not Supply; ITC Allowed to Employer: AAR Gujarat September 26, 2026 GST Registration Cancellation for Non-Disclosure of Bank Details Quashed: Calcutta HC September 26, 2026 GST Order Quashed for Denial of Personal Hearing: Calcutta HC September 26, 2026