Summary: Input tax credit validly availed within the prescribed time and subsequently reversed because of a clerical mistake in GSTR-3B can be restored without attracting the time restriction under Section 16(4) of the CGST Act, according to the analysis in this article. Section 16(4) restricts taking credit on an invoice after the prescribed date, whereas restoration involves credit that had already been validly taken. The second proviso to Section 16(2) permits re-availment after reversal for non-payment to the supplier, while Rule 37(4) expressly provides that the Section 16(4) time limit does not apply to re-availing credit reversed earlier. Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST also provides for reclaimed ITC to be reported through Table 4(A)(5) of GSTR-3B, with the reclaimed amount disclosed in Table 4(D)(1). A later-year mismatch with GSTR-2A/2B does not by itself establish ineligibility where the credit relates to invoices of an earlier period. The article further relies upon Supreme Court decisions in Eicher Motors Ltd. v. Union of India, Collector of Central Excise, Pune v. Dai Ichi Karkaria Ltd. and Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes to support the distinction between substantive entitlement and procedural requirements. Table of Contents▸ Credit Reversed by Mistake: Does Section 16(4) Bar Its Reclaim? The Issue How the Problem Arises The Statutory Framework Section 16(4) Second proviso to Section 16(2) Rule 37(4) Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST dated 06.07.2022 Section 16(2)(aa) Why Section 16(4) Is Not Attracted A condition once fulfilled is not tested again. A clerical slip does not forfeit a vested right. The argument a fortiori. Rule 37(4) is not confined to Rule 37. The reporting row is procedural. The GSTR-2A/2B test does not fit. There is no loss of revenue. Interest and penalty do not follow. The Judicial View Eicher Motors Ltd. v. Union of India, (1999) 2 SCC 361 : 1999 (106) ELT 3 (SC) Collector of Central Excise, Pune v. Dai Ichi Karkaria Ltd., (1999) 7 SCC 448 Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 21 Conclusion Show all 23 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Credit Reversed by Mistake: Does Section 16(4) Bar Its Reclaim? The Issue Input tax credit that was validly availed within time, and later reversed only because of a clerical error in the return, can be restored in a subsequent year without running into Section 16(4). The provision limits the time for taking credit for the first time. It does not govern the restoration of credit already taken. The question is far from academic. Small and medium taxpayers file their own returns or depend on accountants working under heavy load. A wrong figure in Table 4 of Form GSTR-3B is easily made, and the mistake often surfaces only a year or two later during reconciliation. By then the date prescribed under Section 16(4) for the year of the invoice has passed. The taxpayer restores the credit, and the department reads the restoration as a belated fresh claim. This article examines whether the department is right, and concludes that it is not. How the Problem Arises The typical sequence runs in three steps. In Year 1 the registered person buys goods against valid tax invoices, receives them, pays the supplier, and avails the credit in its GSTR-3B within time. The invoices sit in its GSTR-2A for that year. In a later month of Year 1, a clerical slip in preparing the GSTR-3B reverses part of that credit. Table 4(C) shows a negative net figure, though nothing in Table 4(B) or 4(D) explains it. The reversal is not under Rule 42 or Rule 43, nor on account of any blocked credit under Section 17(5). In Year 3 the mistake is noticed and the same credit is put back through Table 4(A)(5). When Year 3 is scrutinised, the credit in GSTR-3B exceeds the credit in GSTR-2A/2B of that year. The excess is exactly the restored amount, because invoices of Year 1 can never appear in the auto populated statement of Year 3. The gap is one of timing. It is often treated as excess credit all the same, and tax, interest and penalty are proposed on it. The Statutory Framework The law already treats reclaim of reversed credit differently from first time availment, and in places says so in express words. Section 16(4) A registered person “shall not be entitled to take input tax credit in respect of any invoice or debit note” after the prescribed date. The operative words are “to take”. The provision fixes the outer date by which credit on an invoice must first enter the books. It is silent on credit already taken within that date. Second proviso to Section 16(2) Where a recipient reverses credit for not paying the supplier within 180 days, it may avail that credit again on making payment. No time limit is attached to the re-availment. Payment is the only condition. Rule 37(4) The rule states the position plainly: “(4) The time limit specified in sub-section (4) of section 16 shall not apply to a claim for re-availing of any credit, in accordance with the provisions of the Act or the provisions of this Chapter, that had been reversed earlier.” The words are wide. The rule speaks of “any credit” that “had been reversed earlier”, in accordance with the Act or Chapter V of the Rules. It is not confined to reversals under Rule 37. Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST dated 06.07.2022 Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST dated 06.07.2022. Credit that is reversed and later reclaimed enters the ledger through Table 4(A)(5), and the reclaimed figure is also shown for information in Table 4(D)(1). Paragraph 4.3 says such credit “may be reclaimed in Table 4(A)(5) on fulfilment of necessary conditions”. The Circular places no time limit on the reclaim. Section 16(2)(aa) The condition linking credit to its reflection in the Section 38 statement came into force only from 01.01.2022. It cannot be applied to invoices of earlier periods. Why Section 16(4) Is Not Attracted A condition once fulfilled is not tested again. Section 16(4) is satisfied when credit on the invoice is availed within the prescribed date. The same condition cannot be applied a second time to the same credit years later. On restoration nothing new is taken. The same invoices, the same suppliers and the same amounts are put back where they lawfully stood before the mistake. A clerical slip does not forfeit a vested right. A reversal made by mistake is not an act of law and not the outcome of any adjudication. It is the taxpayer’s own error against its own interest. No provision of the Act says that credit lawfully availed is lost because it was reversed by mistake. The argument a fortiori. Under the second proviso to Section 16(2), a condition of credit actually fails for a period, because the supplier is unpaid, and the law still permits re-availment without any time limit. Where credit is reversed by mistake, no condition ever failed. If restoration is allowed where entitlement was lost for a while, it cannot be barred where entitlement was never lost at all. Rule 37(4) is not confined to Rule 37. A narrow reading would limit the rule to reversals for non payment to suppliers. The text does not allow it. The rule covers “any credit” reversed “in accordance with the provisions of the Act or the provisions of this Chapter”. Even apart from the rule, Section 16(4) on its own terms reaches only the taking of credit. The reporting row is procedural. Restoration through Table 4(A)(5) is restoration through the very row by which reclaimed credit enters the ledger. Omitting to repeat the figure in Table 4(D)(1), which is an information row, is at most a lapse in reporting. It does not touch the substantive conditions of Section 16(2). The GSTR-2A/2B test does not fit. Invoices of an earlier year can never appear in the GSTR-2A/2B of a later one. Comparing restored credit with the later year’s statement will always show a gap, and that gap proves nothing about eligibility. There is no loss of revenue. Over the whole period the taxpayer has taken the credit once, given it up once by mistake, and taken it back once. The net credit enjoyed is exactly what the law allows. Denying the restoration would forfeit a genuine credit for good and leave the State holding tax that was never due, which defeats the very purpose of the credit mechanism. Interest and penalty do not follow. Interest under Section 50(3) read with Rule 88B(3) arises only on credit wrongly availed and utilised, and only to the extent and for the period the ledger balance fell below the disputed amount. Penalty under Section 73(9) likewise needs credit wrongly availed or utilised. Neither situation exists where a taxpayer openly corrects its own mistake. The Judicial View Three judgments of the Supreme Court, rendered under the earlier credit and sales tax regimes, carry the principle into GST, which is the successor to the Cenvat scheme. Eicher Motors Ltd. v. Union of India, (1999) 2 SCC 361 : 1999 (106) ELT 3 (SC) Credit availed under the scheme was treated as equivalent to tax already paid: “… the facility of credit is as good as tax paid till tax is adjusted on future goods on the basis of the several commitments which would have been made by the assessees concerned.” Collector of Central Excise, Pune v. Dai Ichi Karkaria Ltd., (1999) 7 SCC 448 In paragraph 17 the Court held credit validly taken to be indefeasible: “There is no provision in the Rules which provides for a reversal of the credit by the excise authorities except where it has been illegally or irregularly taken, in which event it stands cancelled or, if utilised, has to be paid for. We are here really concerned with credit that has been validly taken, and its benefit is available to the manufacturer without any limitation in time or otherwise unless the manufacturer itself chooses not to use the raw material in its excisable product. The credit is, therefore, indefeasible.” The words “without any limitation in time” settle the question. Credit validly taken is not lost by the passage of time, and still less by a clerical slip. Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, 1992 Supp (1) SCC 21 The Court separated substantive conditions from procedural ones: “The mere fact that it is statutory does not matter one way or the other. There are conditions and conditions. Some may be substantive, mandatory and based on considerations of policy and some others may merely belong to the area of procedure. It will be erroneous to attach equal importance to the non-observance of all conditions irrespective of the purposes they were intended to serve.” A disclosure row in a return belongs to the second class. Its omission cannot defeat a credit whose substantive conditions stand satisfied. Conclusion Restoring credit that was reversed by mistake is not taking credit afresh, and Section 16(4) has no role to play in it. The text of Section 16(4), the second proviso to Section 16(2), Rule 37(4), Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST and settled authority of the Supreme Court all point the same way. A few practical points follow for taxpayers and practitioners: Keep the trail of the original availment: the GSTR-3B of the year of the invoice, the GSTR-2A showing the invoices, and the invoices themselves. Record why the reversal was a mistake. Nil entries in Tables 4(B) and 4(D) of the return in which credit was reversed show that it was not under Rule 42, Rule 43 or Section 17(5). Prepare a reconciliation that ties the restored amount, head by head, to the earlier reversal. Restore through Table 4(A)(5) and also show the figure in Table 4(D)(1), as the Circular requires. Correct reporting removes the occasion for dispute. Keep any genuine current year mismatch separate, so that it does not cloud the restoration. The credit chain exists to prevent the cascading of tax, not to punish a taxpayer who corrects its own error against its own interest. Where a gap between GSTR-3B and GSTR-2A/2B is traced to such restoration, there is nothing left to tax. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTinput tax credit Author Info Name: RAVINDRA KUMAR RASTOGI Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: R R ASSOCIATES Location: Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 55 View full profile → More from RAVINDRA KUMAR RASTOGI Bank Credits Are Not Sales: Limits of Estimating GST Turnover from a Current Account October 4, 2026 Section 16(2)(c) GST ITC: Punjab & Haryana HC Bars Mechanical Reversal for Supplier Default October 4, 2026 GST Rule 86B on Tobacco Traders: Section 49(12), RSP Valuation & Constitutional Challenge October 4, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GSTAT Lucknow Quashes E-Way Bill Penalty for Bona Fide 9-Minute Delay October 4, 2026 Recent GST Updates: GSTN Appeals, emSigner, GSTAT SOPs & Multistate Registration October 4, 2026 Bank Credits Are Not Sales: Limits of Estimating GST Turnover from a Current Account October 4, 2026 GST on Transfer of Leasehold Rights In Industrial Land: Is The Question Really Settled? October 4, 2026 GST Tax Invoice for Goods: Mandatory Particulars and Compliance Significance October 4, 2026 GST Penalties: Understanding Defaults, Consequences and Legal Safeguards October 4, 2026