Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Mumbai, October 6, 2026: Lupin Limited has announced the launch of Formoflo-G® MDI, the world’s first fixed-dose triple combination metered-dose inhaler (MDI) for the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in India. This innovative product has received approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) and represents a significant advancement in the treatment options available for COPD, a condition affecting over 55 million people in the country. Formoflo-G® MDI is a novel therapeutic option that combines three active ingredients: Glycopyrronium Bromide, Formoterol Fumarate, and Fluticasone Propionate. Designed for the long-term management of moderate to severe COPD, the inhaler is administered twice daily in a single-strength fixed dose. This development is expected to provide substantial relief to patients suffering from this debilitating respiratory condition, which is a leading cause of mortality and morbidity in India. Nilesh Gupta, Managing Director of Lupin, highlighted the importance of this launch in addressing the critical need for effective respiratory therapies in India. He stated that Formoflo-G® MDI underscores Lupin’s commitment to delivering high-quality, innovative treatments that meet the unmet needs of patients with respiratory diseases. Rajeev Sibal, President of India Region Formulations at Lupin, added that the new inhaler strengthens the company’s respiratory portfolio and offers healthcare professionals a valuable treatment option for COPD patients. Lupin is ranked as the second-largest player in the respiratory therapy segment in India, according to IQVIA data for March 2026. The launch of Formoflo-G® MDI reinforces the company’s leadership in respiratory care and its focus on innovation-driven therapies. Lupin, a global pharmaceutical leader headquartered in Mumbai, continues to expand its portfolio across various therapeutic areas, including cardiovascular, diabetes, and women’s health. The company is committed to sustainability and innovation, supported by its extensive manufacturing and research capabilities. Analysts view this launch as a strategic move by Lupin to consolidate its position in the respiratory segment and enhance its competitive edge in the pharmaceutical market. The introduction of Formoflo-G® MDI is expected to drive growth and provide a significant boost to Lupin’s respiratory portfolio. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under NSE Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Glenmark Therapeutics launches new pump packs for Adapalene Gel USP, 0.1% in the USA October 6, 2026 IREDA signs performance MoU with MNRE for fiscal year 2026-27 October 5, 2026 Zydus and MSN launch first generic of Adempas® in the US market October 5, 2026 Trent reports 23% revenue growth in Q2FY27, opens 1000th Zudio store October 5, 2026 Airtel Business unveils India’s first telco-grade communications platform October 5, 2026 Bharat Forge secures long-term contract with Pratt & Whitney Canada for aerospace components October 5, 2026