RBI/2026-27/264 and DOR.MRG.REC.No.228/00-00-001/2026-27 dated September 22, 2026. The amendment modifies the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Classification, Valuation, and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025 to ensure clarity and uniform practices in valuation of units of Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs). New paragraphs 84A and 84B provide that quoted securities issued by InvITs and REITs and their units shall be valued in accordance with the instructions applicable to quoted securities. Unquoted InvIT and REIT units shall be valued at the NAV disclosed by the respective trust. Where an InvIT or REIT fails to compute and disclose NAV in the manner and frequency specified under the applicable SEBI Regulations, the value of its units shall be treated as ₹1 for purposes of the Directions. The same treatment applies to InvIT and REIT units classified as infrequently traded under the relevant SEBI Regulations. Other unquoted instruments issued by an InvIT or REIT shall be valued according to the methodology specified for such instruments. The Third Amendment Directions come into effect from the date of issue. Reserve Bank of India RBI/2026-27/264DOR.MRG.REC.No.228/00-00-001/2026-27 | Dated: September 22, 2026 Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Classification, Valuation, and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Third Amendment Directions, 2026 Please refer to Chapter – IX of Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Classification, Valuation, and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025, dated November 28, 2025, on fair valuation of investments. In order to ensure clarity and uniform practices in the valuation of units of Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REIT), there is a need to amend the extant instructions. 2. Accordingly, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 35A of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (hereinafter called the Act) and all other laws enabling the Reserve Bank in this regard, the Reserve Bank, being satisfied that it is necessary and expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby, issues the Amendment Directions hereinafter specified. 3. (i) These Directions shall be called the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Classification, Valuation, and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Third Amendment Directions, 2026. (ii) These Amendment Directions shall come into effect from the date of issue. 4. The Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Classification, Valuation, and Operation of Investment Portfolio) Directions, 2025, are amended as provided below. (i) Paragraph 84A shall be inserted as under: – “84A. Units of Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) (1) Quoted securities issued by InvITs and units of InvITs shall be valued mutatis mutandis as per instructions given in these Directions for quoted securities. (2) Unquoted instruments of InvITs shall be valued as under: i. Units: The valuation shall be done at the NAV as disclosed by the InvIT. Where an InvIT fails to compute and disclose the NAV in the manner and frequency specified under SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, the value of its units shall be treated as ₹1 for the purpose of these Directions. Such treatment shall also apply to the InvIT units classified as infrequently traded in terms of the aforementioned SEBI Regulations. ii. Other instruments: The valuation of other unquoted instruments issued by an InvIT shall be as per the methodology specified for such instruments above.”. (ii) Paragraph 84B shall be inserted as under: – “84B. Units of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) (1) Quoted securities issued by REITs and units of REITs shall be valued mutatis mutandis as per instructions given in these Directions for quoted securities. (2) Unquoted instruments of REITs shall be valued as under: i. Units: The valuation shall be done at the NAV as disclosed by the REIT. Where a REIT fails to compute and disclose the NAV in the manner and frequency specified under SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, the value of its units shall be treated as ₹1 for the purpose of these Directions. Such treatment shall also apply to the REIT units classified as infrequently traded in terms of the aforementioned SEBI Regulations. ii. Other instruments: The valuation of other unquoted instruments issued by a REIT shall be as per the methodology specified for such instruments above.”. (Sunil T S Nair)Chief General Manager Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under RBI Notificationsreserve bank of india Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Fema / RBI RBI Amends Local Area Banks Investment Valuation Norms for InvIT and REIT Units September 22, 2026 RBI Amends Small Finance Banks Investment Valuation Norms for InvIT and REIT Units September 22, 2026 RBI Amends Payments Banks Investment Valuation Norms for InvIT and REIT Units September 22, 2026 RBI Amends AIFI Investment Valuation Norms for InvIT and REIT Units September 22, 2026 Offshore Accounting Firms: FEMA, GST & Transfer Pricing Compliance September 21, 2026 Brother-in-Law Funding Purchase and Using Flat as Collateral Establishes Benami Ownership: SAFEMA September 19, 2026