1 | 2020 Inspection Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP (Headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina) March 27, 2025 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2025-053 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2020 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2020 Inspection and Historical Data by Inspection Year ................................... 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ........................... 8 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control .......................................................................... 9 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-053, March 27, 2025 | 2 2020 INSPECTION In the 2020 inspection of Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of public companies. We selected for review five audits of issuers with fiscal years generally ending in 2019. For each issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2020 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work nor of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on the scope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-053, March 27, 2025 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2020 INSPECTION AND HISTORICAL DATA BY INSPECTION YEAR The following information provides an overview of our 2020 inspection of the firm’s issuer audits as well as data from the previous inspection. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 20202018 Firm data Total issuer audit clients for which the firm was the principal auditorat the outset of the inspection procedures 47 47 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 1 21 21 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed 2 5 5 Audits in which the firm was the principal auditor 5 5 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (“ICFR”) 3 4 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies3 4 If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In many cases, the firm has performed remedial actions after the issue was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing additional audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR, or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to 1 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201) during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspection. 2 The population of issuer audits from which audits are selected for review may differ from the issuer audits at the outset of the inspection procedures due to variations such as new issuer audit clients for which the firm has not yet issued an opinion or issuer audit clients lost prior to the outset of the inspection. Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-053, March 27, 2025 | 4 previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2020 inspection and the previous inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2020 2018 Audit area Audits reviewedAudit areaAudits reviewed Allowance for loan losses 3 Allowance for loan losses 3 Investment securities 3 Investment securities 2 Revenue and related accounts 1 Business combinations 2 Insurance-related assets and liabilities, including insurance reserves 1 Insurance-related assets and liabilities, including insurance reserves 1 Loans and related accounts 1 Revenue and related accounts 1 Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-053, March 27, 2025 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. Part I.B discusses deficiencies, if any, that do not relate directly to the sufficiency or appropriateness of evidence the firm obtained to support its opinion(s) (but nevertheless relate to instances of non- compliance with PCAOB standards or rules. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of or potential defect in the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency or combination of deficiencies that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The sole purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-053, March 27, 2025 | 6 This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work supporting the firm’s opinion on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A) and industry sector. Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard(s) that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR None Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer A – Financials Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement and ICFR audits related to the Allowance for Loan Losses (“ALL”). Description of the deficiencies identified The issuer’s general reserve component of the ALL included a qualitative reserve component that was determined by certain qualitative factors. The firm selected for testing a control that included the review of the qualitative component of the general reserve. The firm did not evaluate the review procedures that the control owner performed, including the procedures to identify items for follow up and the procedures to determine whether those items were appropriately resolved. (AS 2201.42 and .44) The firm’s approach for substantively testing the ALL was to review and test management’s process. The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of the basis points that were applied to qualitative factors, beyond (1) reading the issuer’s analysis, (2) comparing the basis points to prior year, Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-053, March 27, 2025 | 7 and (3) assessing whether certain changes, or lack thereof, to the factors from prior year were directionally consistent with internal or external data. (AS 2501.09, .10, and .11) Issuer B – Financials Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement and ICFR audits related to the ALL. Description of the deficiencies identified The issuer’s general reserve component of the ALL included a qualitative reserve component that was determined by certain qualitative factors. The firm selected for testing a control that included the review of the qualitative component of the general reserve. The firm did not evaluate the review procedures that the control owner performed with respect to certain qualitative factors, including the procedures to identify items for follow up and the procedures to determine whether those items were appropriately resolved. (AS 2201.42 and .44) The firm’s approach for substantively testing the ALL was to review and test management’s process. The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of the basis points that were applied to certain qualitative factors, beyond (1) reading the issuer’s analysis, (2) comparing the basis points to prior year, and (3) assessing whether certain changes, or lack thereof, to the factors from prior year were directionally consistent with internal or external data. (AS 2501.09, .10, and .11) Issuer C – Financials Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement and ICFR audits related to the ALL. Description of the deficiencies identified The issuer’s general reserve component of the ALL included a qualitative reserve component that was determined by certain qualitative factors. The firm selected for testing a control that included the review of the qualitative component of the general reserve. The firm did not evaluate the review procedures that the control owner performed, including the procedures to identify items for follow up and the procedures to determine whether those items were appropriately resolved. (AS 2201.42 and .44) The firm’s approach for substantively testing the ALL was to review and test management’s process. The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of the basis points that were applied to qualitative factors, beyond (1) reading the issuer’s analysis, (2) comparing the basis points to prior year and performing a trend analysis, and (3) assessing whether certain changes, or lack thereof, resulting from the comparison and trend analysis were directionally consistent with internal or external data. (AS 2501.09, .10, and .11) Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-053, March 27, 2025 | 8 Audits with a Single Deficiency None PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES In the 2020 inspection, we did not identify any deficiencies related to other instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules. Dixon Hughes Goodman LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-053, March 27, 2025 | 9 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. Dixon Hughes Goodman, LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-053, March 27, 2025 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the Board provided the firm an opportunity to review and comment on a draft of this report. The firm did not provide a written response. A-1 |