Summary: Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H) were introduced to strengthen reporting and compliance for high-value purchase and sale of goods transactions. Section 194Q placed the TDS obligation on eligible buyers purchasing goods from resident sellers, while Section 206C(1H) placed the TCS obligation on eligible sellers receiving consideration from buyers. The article explains the respective applicability conditions, including the ₹10 crore previous-year turnover requirement and the ₹50 lakh transaction threshold, along with the 0.1% rate under Section 194Q and the timing of deduction at the earlier of credit or payment. It also explains vendor-wise threshold tracking, seller-wise and buyer-wise turnover tests, and the practical interplay between the two provisions where both appeared applicable, with priority given to Section 194Q where its conditions were satisfied. Section 206C(1H), introduced with effect from 1 October 2020, was withdrawn from 1 April 2025, reducing duplication in compliance. The article further examines practical examples, vendor tracking, deduction timing, PAN and vendor information, and compliance responsibilities. It concludes with a compliance checklist and FAQs addressing the purpose, thresholds, responsible persons, rates and operation of Sections 194Q and 206C(1H). Table of Contents▸ Introduction Understanding Section 194Q of the Income Tax Act Meaning and Purpose of Section 194Q Applicability of Section 194Q Buyer Turnover Requirement Under Section 194Q Purchase Threshold of ₹50 Lakh Rate of TDS Under Section 194Q Time of Deduction Under Section 194Q Understanding Section 206C(1H) of the Income Tax Act Meaning and Purpose of Section 206C(1H) Applicability of Section 206C(1H) Seller Turnover Requirement Under Section 206C(1H) Receipt Threshold Under Section 206C(1H) Withdrawal of Section 206C(1H) Key Differences Between Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H) Difference Based on Nature of Compliance Difference Based on Responsible Person Difference Based on Turnover Conditions Interplay Between Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H) Practical Example of Section 194Q Practical Example of Section 206C(1H) Compliance Challenges Under Section 194Q Vendor-Wise Tracking Correct Timing of Deduction Maintaining Accurate Vendor Details Impact of Removal of Section 206C(1H) Compliance Checklist for Businesses Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions Q1. What is the purpose of Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H)? Q2. What is Section 194Q of the Income Tax Act? Q3. What was Section 206C(1H) of the Income Tax Act? Q4. Who is responsible for compliance under Section 194Q? Q5. Who was responsible for compliance under Section 206C(1H)? Q6. What was the turnover limit for applicability of Section 194Q? Q7. What was the turnover limit for Section 206C(1H)? Q8. What is the purchase threshold under Section 194Q? Q9. What was the threshold under Section 206C(1H)? Q10. What is the TDS rate under Section 194Q? Show all 39 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction The Income Tax Act, 1961 contains various provisions designed to ensure proper reporting of financial transactions and prevent tax evasion. Among these provisions, Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H) are important compliance mechanisms introduced to monitor high-value transactions involving the purchase and sale of goods. Section 194Q requires certain buyers to deduct Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) when purchasing goods beyond a specified limit from resident sellers. On the other hand, Section 206C(1H) required certain sellers to collect Tax Collected at Source (TCS) when receiving consideration for the sale of goods beyond the prescribed threshold. Both provisions created significant compliance responsibilities for businesses engaged in trading, manufacturing, distribution and procurement activities. Since both provisions dealt with the same category of transactions, businesses often faced confusion regarding their applicability, priority, calculation of thresholds and responsibility for compliance. Difference between these two sections is essential because incorrect application may result in interest liability, penalties, disallowance of expenses, reconciliation issues and unnecessary compliance disputes. While Section 206C(1H) has now been withdrawn from 1 April 2025, understanding its framework remains important for historical compliance and for understanding why Section 194Q became the primary mechanism for large purchase transactions. Understanding Section 194Q of the Income Tax Act Meaning and Purpose of Section 194Q Section 194Q was introduced through the Finance Act, 2021 and became effective from 1 July 2021. The provision was introduced to ensure greater transparency in large-value purchase transactions and to bring significant business purchases within the tax reporting system. Under this section, the responsibility is placed on the buyer of goods to deduct TDS when purchasing goods from a resident seller, provided the prescribed conditions are satisfied. Therefore, unlike traditional TDS provisions where the obligation may arise in relation to payments for services, contracts or professional fees, Section 194Q specifically focuses on purchase transactions. The purpose behind introducing Section 194Q was to create a mechanism where large buyers report their purchases through tax deduction compliance. This enables the Income Tax Department to track significant business transactions and compare purchase information with income declared by sellers. Applicability of Section 194Q Section 194Q applies only when certain conditions relating to the buyer, seller and transaction value are fulfilled. The provision does not apply to every purchase transaction but only to purchases crossing the prescribed limits. The applicability depends mainly on two factors: The turnover of the buyer in the previous financial year. The value of goods purchased from a particular seller during the current financial year. Therefore, businesses must evaluate both their own turnover position and vendor-wise purchase value before determining whether TDS under Section 194Q is applicable. Buyer Turnover Requirement Under Section 194Q One of the most important conditions under Section 194Q is that the buyer must have a business turnover exceeding ₹10 crore during the immediately preceding financial year. This condition ensures that the provision applies mainly to established businesses undertaking substantial commercial activities rather than small purchasers. For example, if a company had a turnover of ₹15 crore in the previous financial year and purchases goods worth more than ₹50 lakh from a supplier during the current year, the company must examine its obligation under Section 194Q. However, if the buyer’s previous-year turnover does not exceed the prescribed limit, the buyer is generally not required to deduct TDS under this section. Purchase Threshold of ₹50 Lakh Another important condition is that purchases from a particular seller must exceed ₹50 lakh during a financial year. The threshold is calculated separately for each seller. This means that a buyer cannot combine purchases from different suppliers to determine applicability. For example, if a company purchases: ₹80 lakh from Supplier A; and ₹40 lakh from Supplier B, Section 194Q will apply only in relation to Supplier A because purchases from Supplier A crossed the ₹50 lakh threshold. Therefore, businesses dealing with multiple vendors must maintain proper vendor-wise purchase tracking systems to identify when the threshold is crossed. Rate of TDS Under Section 194Q Where Section 194Q applies, the buyer is required to deduct TDS at the prescribed rate of 0.1% on the amount exceeding ₹50 lakh. The tax is not deducted on the entire purchase value. Only the amount above the threshold limit is considered for deduction. For example, if annual purchases from a seller amount to ₹90 lakh: Total purchase value: ₹90 lakh Less threshold: ₹50 lakh Amount liable for TDS: ₹40 lakh TDS will be calculated on ₹40 lakh at the applicable rate. This calculation method ensures that only the portion exceeding the statutory limit is subject to deduction. Time of Deduction Under Section 194Q Section 194Q requires deduction of TDS at the earlier of two events: Credit of the purchase amount to the seller’s account; or Payment of the purchase consideration. This means that the buyer cannot postpone deduction merely because payment has not yet been made. For example, if goods are purchased and the amount is credited in the books on 15 June but payment is made on 30 July, TDS obligation arises on 15 June because credit occurred earlier. Therefore, accounting practices play an important role in Section 194Q compliance. Businesses must ensure that purchase entries and payment processes are properly monitored. Understanding Section 206C(1H) of the Income Tax Act Meaning and Purpose of Section 206C(1H) Section 206C(1H) was introduced through the Finance Act, 2020 and became effective from 1 October 2020. Unlike Section 194Q, which operates from the buyer’s side, Section 206C(1H) operated from the seller’s side. Under this provision, eligible sellers were required to collect TCS from buyers when receiving consideration for the sale of goods beyond the specified threshold. The purpose of this provision was also to increase transparency in large commercial transactions and improve reporting of high-value sales. However, since both Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H) covered similar transactions, businesses faced practical difficulties in determining which provision should apply when both buyer and seller satisfied their respective conditions. Applicability of Section 206C(1H) When Section 206C(1H) was applicable, the seller had to satisfy certain conditions relating to turnover and receipt of consideration. The provision applied only to sellers whose business turnover exceeded the prescribed limit and where receipts from a buyer crossed the specified threshold. The responsibility under this section was entirely different from Section 194Q because the seller had to collect tax rather than the buyer deducting it. Seller Turnover Requirement Under Section 206C(1H) Section 206C(1H) applied where the seller had turnover exceeding ₹10 crore during the immediately preceding financial year. Therefore, applicability depended on the financial position of the seller rather than the buyer. For example, a manufacturer with turnover exceeding ₹10 crore selling goods to customers would need to evaluate whether TCS provisions applied based on receipts from those customers. Receipt Threshold Under Section 206C(1H) TCS under Section 206C(1H) was applicable when the seller received consideration exceeding ₹50 lakh from a buyer during a financial year. The seller was required to collect TCS only on the amount received above the threshold. For example: Sales consideration received: ₹80 lakh Threshold: ₹50 lakh Amount liable for TCS: ₹30 lakh TCS was calculated on the excess amount. Withdrawal of Section 206C(1H) Section 206C(1H) was withdrawn with effect from 1 April 2025. The removal was intended to simplify compliance and reduce duplication because Section 194Q already covered similar high-value purchase transactions from the buyer’s side. After withdrawal, sellers are no longer required to collect TCS on sale of goods under Section 206C(1H). However, businesses must still evaluate whether Section 194Q applies to their purchase transactions. Key Differences Between Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H) Difference Based on Nature of Compliance The primary difference between both provisions was the nature of tax collection responsibility. Section 194Q was a TDS provision where the buyer deducted tax before making payment or crediting the purchase amount. Section 206C(1H) was a TCS provision where the seller collected tax from the buyer while receiving consideration. Therefore, Section 194Q operated from the purchase side, whereas Section 206C(1H) operated from the sale side. Difference Based on Responsible Person Under Section 194Q, the buyer was responsible for compliance because the buyer had to deduct tax. Under Section 206C(1H), the seller was responsible because the seller had to collect tax. This difference was significant because both parties involved in the same transaction could potentially have separate compliance obligations. Difference Based on Turnover Conditions The turnover test under both provisions was applied to different parties. For Section 194Q: The buyer’s turnover in the previous year determined applicability. For Section 206C(1H): The seller’s turnover in the previous year determined applicability. Therefore, businesses had to analyse their role in each transaction before deciding whether TDS or TCS provisions applied. Interplay Between Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H) One of the biggest practical challenges was when both provisions appeared applicable simultaneously. For example: Buyer turnover exceeded ₹10 crore. Seller turnover exceeded ₹10 crore. Purchase value exceeded ₹50 lakh. In such cases, both buyer and seller could believe that compliance responsibility applied to them. To avoid double collection, priority was given to Section 194Q. Where the buyer deducted TDS under Section 194Q, the seller was not required to collect TCS under Section 206C(1H) for the same transaction. This ensured that the same transaction was not subjected to both TDS and TCS compliance. TaxGuru’s discussion on the interplay between TDS under Section 194Q and TCS under Section 206C(1H) also addresses the priority mechanism between the two provisions. Practical Example of Section 194Q Suppose ABC Limited purchases goods worth ₹1 crore from XYZ Limited. ABC Limited’s previous-year turnover: ₹25 crore. Since ABC Limited satisfies the turnover condition and purchases exceed ₹50 lakh, Section 194Q applies. Calculation: Purchase value: ₹1 crore Threshold exemption: ₹50 lakh Amount liable for TDS: ₹50 lakh TDS: ₹50 lakh × 0.1% = ₹5,000 ABC Limited must deduct and deposit the applicable TDS. Practical Example of Section 206C(1H) When Section 206C(1H) was applicable, suppose a seller having turnover above ₹10 crore sold goods worth ₹2 crore to a buyer. Once receipts from that buyer exceeded ₹50 lakh, the seller was required to collect TCS on the amount exceeding the threshold. However, after 1 April 2025, such collection obligation under Section 206C(1H) no longer applies. Compliance Challenges Under Section 194Q Vendor-Wise Tracking Businesses often face difficulty tracking purchases from multiple suppliers because the ₹50 lakh threshold applies separately to each seller. Proper accounting software and vendor management systems are necessary to identify when the threshold is crossed. Correct Timing of Deduction Since deduction occurs at the earlier of credit or payment, businesses must coordinate between procurement, accounts and payment teams. Delays in deduction can result in interest and penalty consequences. Maintaining Accurate Vendor Details Correct PAN details and vendor information are essential because incorrect information may affect the applicable deduction rate and compliance reporting. Impact of Removal of Section 206C(1H) The withdrawal of Section 206C(1H) has reduced compliance complexity for sellers. Earlier, businesses had to evaluate both purchase-side TDS obligations and sale-side TCS obligations. After removal, businesses primarily need to focus on whether Section 194Q applies to their purchase transactions. This change has simplified reporting requirements and reduced duplication in business-to-business transactions. Compliance Checklist for Businesses Businesses should regularly review whether they qualify as buyers or sellers under applicable tax provisions. Buyers should monitor previous-year turnover, track vendor-wise purchases, deduct TDS where required and file timely returns. Sellers should maintain proper sales records, verify tax deductions received and reconcile tax credits appearing in Form 26AS and AIS. Maintaining accurate transaction records helps businesses avoid disputes and ensures smooth tax compliance. Conclusion Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H) were introduced to bring greater transparency and accountability in high-value business transactions involving the purchase and sale of goods. These provisions created a structured reporting mechanism by ensuring that significant commercial transactions were reflected in the tax system. While Section 194Q placed the responsibility on buyers to deduct TDS on eligible purchases, Section 206C(1H) required sellers to collect TCS on qualifying sales transactions. The objective behind both provisions was to improve tax compliance and strengthen transaction monitoring. With the withdrawal of Section 206C(1H) from 1 April 2025, businesses have experienced simplified compliance requirements, as the responsibility for applicable goods transactions primarily shifts towards Section 194Q. However, buyers involved in large-value purchases must continue to monitor turnover limits, vendor-wise purchase thresholds and timely TDS deductions. Businesses engaged in manufacturing, trading, distribution and procurement should maintain accurate records and adopt proper compliance systems to avoid interest, penalties and reporting issues. Frequently Asked Questions Q1. What is the purpose of Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H)? Ans. Section 194Q and Section 206C(1H) were introduced to increase transparency in high-value goods transactions. These provisions ensured that significant purchase and sale transactions were reported to the tax authorities through TDS and TCS mechanisms, helping improve tax compliance and transaction monitoring. Q2. What is Section 194Q of the Income Tax Act? Ans. Section 194Q requires certain buyers to deduct TDS when purchasing goods from resident sellers beyond the prescribed threshold. The provision applies where the buyer satisfies the specified turnover condition and purchases goods exceeding the applicable limit during a financial year. Q3. What was Section 206C(1H) of the Income Tax Act? Ans. Section 206C(1H) required eligible sellers to collect TCS on the sale of goods when receipts from a buyer exceeded the prescribed threshold. The provision was introduced to track large-value sales transactions but was withdrawn with effect from 1 April 2025. Q4. Who is responsible for compliance under Section 194Q? Ans. Under Section 194Q, the buyer of goods is responsible for deducting TDS. The buyer must verify applicability, calculate the deductible amount, deposit the tax within the prescribed timeline and file the required TDS returns. Q5. Who was responsible for compliance under Section 206C(1H)? Ans. Under Section 206C(1H), the seller of goods was responsible for collecting TCS from the buyer. The seller had to monitor receipts, collect the applicable amount, deposit it with the government and complete related compliance filings. Q6. What was the turnover limit for applicability of Section 194Q? Ans. Section 194Q applies when the buyer’s total sales, gross receipts or turnover from business exceeded ₹10 crore during the immediately preceding financial year. The buyer must also purchase goods exceeding the prescribed threshold from a resident seller. Q7. What was the turnover limit for Section 206C(1H)? Ans. Section 206C(1H) applied when the seller’s total sales, gross receipts or turnover exceeded ₹10 crore during the immediately preceding financial year. The seller was required to evaluate TCS obligations when receiving consideration beyond the prescribed limit. Q8. What is the purchase threshold under Section 194Q? Ans. Section 194Q applies when purchases from a particular resident seller exceed ₹50 lakh during a financial year. TDS is deducted only on the amount exceeding ₹50 lakh and not on the entire purchase value. Q9. What was the threshold under Section 206C(1H)? Ans. Under Section 206C(1H), TCS was applicable when consideration received from a buyer exceeded ₹50 lakh during a financial year. Collection was required only on the amount received above the specified threshold limit. Q10. What is the TDS rate under Section 194Q? Ans. The applicable TDS rate under Section 194Q is generally 0.1% on the amount exceeding ₹50 lakh. The buyer must deduct the tax at the prescribed time and deposit it according to applicable income tax compliance timelines. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under income tax act 1961Section 194QSection 206CTCSTDS Author Info Name: Compliance Calendar LLP Qualification: Graduate Company: Compliance Calendar LLP Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 62 View full profile → More from Compliance Calendar LLP Tax Audit Under Section 44AB: Limits, Forms, Due Dates and Penalties September 5, 2026 TDS Compliance Checklist for Businesses: Rules, Rates and Deadlines August 25, 2026 Common Income Tax Return (ITR) Filing Mistakes Taxpayers Should Avoid August 24, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax No E-Way Bill on an Internal Stock Transfer? No Section 129 Penalty Either September 7, 2026 Calcutta HC Allows Extension of ITC Rectification Time Under Section 16(5) September 7, 2026 GST Appeal Filed Before Section 107 Order Is Passed Not Maintainable: GSTAT Chennai September 7, 2026 Bombay HC Declines Interim Relief Over GST Recovery Citing Unjustified Delay September 7, 2026 GSTAT Finds Nil Profiteering as Cost Escalation Offsets GST ITC Benefit September 7, 2026 GSTAT Upholds EGVs as Valid GST Benefit Transfer, Orders ₹10,241 Fund Deposit September 7, 2026