Summary: Allegations of fake input tax credit can expose businesses to GST demands, interest, penalties, electronic credit ledger blocking, provisional attachment, arrest and prosecution, but the legal consequences depend significantly on whether the underlying transaction was genuine and whether the purchasing dealer can prove it. The Supreme Court in State of Karnataka v. Ecom Gill Coffee Trading Pvt. Ltd. emphasised that invoices and payment particulars alone may not establish genuine purchases; evidence concerning suppliers, movement and delivery of goods, transport documents and banking channels can become critical. Businesses should therefore preserve contemporaneous supplier due diligence, purchase orders, tax invoices, e-way bills, lorry receipts, delivery and inward records, stock records, banking evidence and GSTR-2A/2B reconciliations. The article also examines Sections 73, 74 and 74A, penalties under Section 122, prosecution under Section 132, ledger blocking under Rule 86A and provisional attachment under Section 83. Decisions including D.Y. Beathel Enterprises, Suncraft Energy, Safecon Lifescience, Shanti Kiran India and Radha Krishan Industries illustrate safeguards available to bona fide purchasers and limits on coercive GST powers. Adjudication, statutory appeals, writ remedies, bail and compounding may be available depending on the proceeding. Table of Contents▸ I. Introduction II. The Statutory Architecture III. The Evidentiary Burden on the Purchasing Dealer IV. The Record a Genuine Business Should Preserve V. Consequences of an Adverse Finding VI. The Judicial Trend Protecting the Bona Fide Purchaser VII. Legal Remedies VIII. Conclusion References Show all 9 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); I. Introduction The phrase “fake ITC” has, over the past four years, acquired a currency in Indian tax enforcement disproportionate to the modest three words it comprises. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence reports having detected fraudulent input tax credit running into tens of thousands of crores of rupees in each of the last several financial years, spread across many thousands of entities and accompanied by arrests running into the hundreds. These are large, headline numbers, and they have produced a correspondingly aggressive enforcement posture — summonses under Section 70, provisional attachment of bank accounts under Section 83, blocking of electronic credit ledgers under Rule 86A, and, in the more serious cases, arrest under Section 69 followed by prosecution under Section 132 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. The difficulty, well documented in reported judgments from the Madras, Calcutta, Delhi, Allahabad, Karnataka and Gauhati High Courts, is that this enforcement machinery does not always distinguish with precision between the operator of a circular-trading racket and the genuine purchasing dealer who paid full consideration, received the goods, and had no means of knowing that the seller further up the chain was a shell entity or a defaulter. This article examines the statutory architecture governing such allegations, the evidentiary record a bona fide business ought to maintain as a matter of ordinary commercial prudence, the consequences that follow an adverse finding, and the remedies — departmental and constitutional — available to a taxpayer who finds itself at the receiving end of a fake ITC notice. II. The Statutory Architecture Input tax credit is not a vested right but a statutory concession, available only upon satisfaction of the conditions in Section 16(2) of the CGST Act — possession of a valid tax invoice, actual receipt of the goods or services, payment of consideration (including tax) to the supplier within the prescribed period, and, critically under clause (c), that the tax charged has “actually been paid” by the supplier to the Government. It is this last condition, read together with the matching exercise now embedded in Rule 36(4) and the GSTR-2A/2B framework, that converts an innocent buyer’s credit into a casualty of someone else’s default or fraud, and it has generated its own line of constitutional litigation that this author has examined separately. The present article is concerned with the narrower but more consequential class of cases where the allegation is not mere non-payment by the supplier but an assertion that the underlying supply itself never took place — the classic “bill trading” or circular-invoicing fact pattern, where credit is passed down a chain of paper transactions with no corresponding movement of goods. For proceedings initiated before the amendments brought in by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2024, the applicable provisions are Section 73 (short payment or wrongly availed credit without fraud, carrying a three-year limitation and a capped 10% penalty) and Section 74 (the same, but where fraud, wilful misstatement or suppression of facts is alleged, carrying a five-year limitation and a penalty equal to the tax amount). For periods from FY 2024-25 onward, both have been subsumed into the new Section 74A, which prescribes a common 42-month limitation for issuing a notice regardless of whether fraud is alleged, while preserving a tiered, conduct-linked penalty structure — a lower penalty where tax and interest are paid before or shortly after notice, and the full amount where the matter is contested to adjudication. Beyond the demand provisions, Section 122(1)(ii) penalises the person who issues an invoice without actual supply leading to wrongful availment of credit, Section 122(1A) extends liability to any person — including one not himself registered — who retains the benefit of such a transaction and at whose instance it was conducted, and Section 132 criminalises the same conduct where the amount of tax evaded or credit wrongly availed exceeds the prescribed threshold, rendering offences above ₹5 crore cognizable and non-bailable under Section 132(5), though compoundable. Rule 86A permits an officer who has “reasons to believe” that credit was fraudulently availed to block the electronic credit ledger without prior hearing, and Section 83 permits provisional attachment of property, including bank accounts, during the pendency of proceedings — both are legitimate revenue-protection tools, but both have been repeatedly cautioned by courts, discussed in Part VI below, as draconian powers to be exercised only on tangible material and not mechanically. III. The Evidentiary Burden on the Purchasing Dealer The starting point for any genuine business defending a fake ITC allegation is the Supreme Court’s judgment in State of Karnataka v. Ecom Gill Coffee Trading Pvt. Ltd., (2023) 18 SCC 809, decided on 13 March 2023. Although rendered under the Karnataka VAT Act, its reasoning on the evidentiary burden has been treated as of general application to Section 16 of the CGST Act. The Court held that mere production of a tax invoice and payment particulars, or an entry in the purchasing dealer’s books of account, does not discharge the burden of proving that a purchase was genuine; the dealer must additionally establish, where called upon, the actual physical movement of goods, the genuineness of the transporting vehicle and documentation, the particulars of payment and banking channels used, and the identity and genuineness of the selling dealer. This is a significant evidentiary burden, and it is precisely this burden that the following Part addresses in practical terms — a business that has not maintained the relevant records cannot discharge it after the fact, however genuine the underlying transaction may actually have been. IV. The Record a Genuine Business Should Preserve The first category of evidence is supplier due diligence undertaken at or before the time of transaction, rather than reconstructed afterward. This includes verification of the supplier’s GST registration status on the GSTN common portal as it stood on the date of the transaction (a dated screenshot or system log is far more persuasive than oral assertion), the supplier’s GSTIN, PAN and constitutional documents, and, for transactions of any materiality, basic commercial diligence such as a visit to or independent confirmation of the supplier’s business premises. The relevance of contemporaneous registration status, as opposed to a later-discovered cancellation, is itself a point of law discussed in Part VI below. The second category is the transaction documentation proper: the purchase order, the tax invoice bearing all particulars prescribed under Rule 46, and, equally important, any correspondence — emails, WhatsApp exchanges, purchase negotiation records — that independently corroborates that the transaction was negotiated and executed in the ordinary course rather than conjured for paper purposes. The third, and in practice the most heavily litigated, category is evidence of the actual physical movement of goods. This comprises the e-way bill generated for the consignment and its correlation with the invoice, the lorry receipt or goods consignment note issued by the transporter, weighment slips where applicable, the transporter’s registration and vehicle details, delivery challans, and the receiving entries in the purchaser’s own gate register, security logs and stores or inward-goods register. Where goods are received at a factory or warehouse, CCTV records (retained for a reasonable period consistent with the business’s document retention policy) and stock ledger entries showing the goods being taken into inventory and subsequently consumed, sold or otherwise accounted for, materially strengthen the record. Ecom Gill places particular emphasis on this category precisely because paper invoices can be generated without any goods ever moving, whereas a consistent trail of transport, weighment and stock-entry records is far harder to fabricate. The fourth category is the payment trail. Payment should be made, so far as commercially possible, through traceable banking channels directly to the supplier’s disclosed bank account, with bank statements, RTGS/NEFT advices and, where applicable, confirmation of receipt by the supplier retained on file. Cash payments at or near the statutory threshold, round-tripping of funds, or payment to an account other than the supplier’s registered account are the fact patterns that most readily attract adverse inference. The fifth category is the statutory return-matching record: the purchasing dealer’s own GSTR-2A/2B reconciliation statements showing that the supplier had, at the relevant time, reflected the outward supply, together with periodic reconciliation working papers. Since the department’s typical allegation in a fake ITC matter is that the supplier never filed returns or filed returns without corresponding tax deposit, a reconciliation record contemporaneously maintained by the buyer — even where it later reveals a mismatch — demonstrates that the buyer was not complicit in, and had no means of detecting, the supplier’s default at the time credit was availed. Finally, where a supplier relationship is recurring, a business is well served by maintaining a simple internal vendor-onboarding file for each significant supplier, updated periodically, rather than relying on diligence performed once and never revisited. In litigation, it is this internal file — more than any single invoice — that most effectively answers the department’s characteristic allegation of either actual knowledge or constructive connivance in a paper transaction. V. Consequences of an Adverse Finding Where the proper officer concludes, after issuing a show cause notice under Section 74 or 74A, that credit has been fraudulently availed, the consequences operate on several fronts simultaneously rather than sequentially. The immediate and most disruptive is the blocking of the electronic credit ledger under Rule 86A, which freezes the taxpayer’s ability to utilise credit — including credit unrelated to the disputed transaction, to the extent of the ledger balance — without any prior hearing, on the strength of the officer’s recorded “reasons to believe.” Running in parallel, Section 83 permits provisional attachment of bank accounts and other property for up to one year where the Commissioner forms an opinion, again without prior notice to the taxpayer, that such attachment is necessary to protect the interest of revenue. Substantively, an adverse order carries recovery of the credit availed together with interest under Section 50, and a penalty that — where fraud is held established — equals the tax amount itself under Section 74/74A. Where the amount involved crosses the prescribed threshold, the matter is referred for prosecution under Section 132, and where the department forms a view regarding non-cooperation or risk of evidence tampering, arrest under Section 69 can precede rather than follow adjudication — a sequence that has generated its own substantial body of bail jurisprudence, illustrated recently by the Chhattisgarh High Court’s grant of bail in a matter involving an alleged ₹11.44 crore fraudulent availment, where custodial interrogation was held unnecessary once the investigation was substantially complete (2026 TAXSCAN (HC) 585). VI. The Judicial Trend Protecting the Bona Fide Purchaser Against this enforcement architecture, a consistent — if not yet entirely settled — line of authority has developed protecting the purchasing dealer who can demonstrate genuineness, as distinct from one who cannot. In D.Y. Beathel Enterprises v. State Tax Officer, (2021) Madras High Court, the Court held that where the allegation is non-remittance of tax by the selling dealer, the department must, as a matter of fair procedure, first conduct inquiry and recovery proceedings against the defaulting seller before visiting the consequence of credit reversal upon the buyer; investigation conducted solely at the buyer’s end, without examining the seller at all, was held procedurally unsustainable. The Calcutta High Court reached a similar conclusion in Suncraft Energy Pvt. Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner, State Tax (2 August 2023), holding that credit cannot be reversed from a buyer merely upon the seller’s default without the department first proceeding against the seller; the Department’s special leave petition against this ruling was dismissed by the Supreme Court on 14 December 2023. The same High Court, in LGW Industries Ltd. v. Union of India (13 December 2021) and again in Gargo Traders v. Joint Commissioner, Commercial Taxes (12 June 2023), held that retrospective cancellation of a supplier’s registration cannot be visited upon a buyer in respect of transactions genuinely conducted while that registration was still valid and subsisting. Two recent decisions extend this reasoning further and are of particular value to the genuine business maintaining the kind of documentary record described in Part IV. In Additional Commissioner Grade-2 v. Safecon Lifescience Pvt. Ltd., the Allahabad High Court (9 September 2025) held that undisclosed departmental intelligence against a supplier cannot by itself sustain a Section 74 demand against a buyer who has produced invoices, e-way bills, transport receipts, banking proof of payment and matching GSTR returns establishing a genuine transaction — a ruling against which the Supreme Court dismissed the Revenue’s special leave petition on 17 July 2026. And in Commissioner of Trade and Taxes, Delhi v. Shanti Kiran India Pvt. Ltd., decided on 16 October 2025, the Supreme Court dismissed the Department’s appeals and upheld the Delhi High Court’s grant of input tax credit to a buyer who had paid tax in full to sellers validly registered at the time of transaction but who subsequently defaulted and had their registrations cancelled, reaffirming the Delhi High Court’s earlier reasoning in On Quest Merchandising India Pvt. Ltd. that a provision denying credit to a bona fide purchaser with no means of controlling or verifying the seller’s subsequent conduct, absent any finding of collusion, offends Article 14. Read together, this line of authority — spanning the Madras, Calcutta, Delhi and Allahabad High Courts and twice affirmed by the Supreme Court — establishes genuineness, evidenced contemporaneously rather than asserted retrospectively, as the decisive factor separating a bona fide purchaser from a participant in fraud. On the collateral powers of attachment and ledger-blocking, the governing authority remains the Supreme Court’s decision in Radha Krishan Industries v. State of Himachal Pradesh, (2021) 6 SCC 771, which described the power of provisional attachment under Section 83 as “draconian in nature” and held that the formation of opinion must be based on tangible material demonstrating a genuine apprehension of revenue loss, not a mechanical reproduction of statutory language — a principle the Gauhati High Court itself applied as recently as 25 June 2026 in setting aside an attachment order for failing to disclose application of mind to any such material. The same reasoning has been extended by courts to Rule 86A blockings, which are liable to be set aside where the recorded reasons do not disclose independent application of mind to credible material. VII. Legal Remedies A business served with a fake ITC show cause notice has, broadly, three tiers of remedy. At the adjudication stage, a reasoned reply addressing each limb of the Ecom Gill test — supplier genuineness, movement of goods, payment trail and return-matching — supported by the documentary record described above, together with insistence on a personal hearing and, where the notice relies on third-party intelligence or investigation reports, a demand that such material be disclosed (following the reasoning in Safecon Lifescience and CBIC’s own Instruction No. 05/2023-GST on the use of such material), remains the first and most important line of defence. Where the adjudicating authority nonetheless confirms the demand, statutory appeal lies to the Commissioner (Appeals) under Section 107, subject to the prescribed pre-deposit, and thereafter to the GST Appellate Tribunal, which has become operational through 2025-26 and now constitutes the second appellate forum before recourse to the jurisdictional High Court under Article 226 or 227. Writ jurisdiction remains available in the interregnum — and has in fact been the principal vehicle through which the Beathel, Suncraft, LGW, Gargo and Safecon lines of authority were decided — particularly where the challenge is to the procedural fairness of the proceeding itself (absence of inquiry against the seller, non-disclosure of adverse material, mechanical blocking under Rule 86A, or attachment under Section 83 unsupported by tangible material) rather than to disputed questions of fact more properly left to appeal. Where arrest is apprehended or has occurred, anticipatory or regular bail under Sections 438/439 Cr.P.C. (now Sections 482/483 BNSS), on the footing that the offence is compoundable, that custodial interrogation serves no further purpose once documents have been seized and statements recorded, and that the taxpayer is not a flight risk, has found consistent favour with High Courts, as the Chhattisgarh ruling noted above illustrates. Finally, Section 138 permits compounding of the offence on payment of the compounding amount, a course of action often commercially preferable to protracted prosecution even where the underlying liability is contested. VIII. Conclusion The enforcement response to large-scale circular trading and bill-trading fraud is a legitimate and necessary exercise of regulatory power, and nothing in the judicial trend surveyed above questions that legitimacy. What that trend does insist upon, with increasing clarity from Beathel in 2021 through Shanti Kiran and Safecon in 2025-26, is that the consequences of someone else’s fraud should not fall by default on a buyer who dealt at arm’s length, paid through the banking system, took delivery of goods it can show it received, and had no means of looking behind its supplier’s compliance record. The practical corollary for any business transacting in a sector or supply chain exposed to this risk is that the evidentiary burden described in Ecom Gill cannot be discharged retrospectively once a notice arrives; it must be built contemporaneously, transaction by transaction, as an ordinary incident of how the business keeps its records. Counsel advising such businesses would therefore be well served to treat vendor due diligence, transport documentation and banking discipline not as compliance overhead but as the primary line of defence against an allegation that, however meritless in substance, can otherwise prove very difficult to answer once raised. References State of Karnataka v. Ecom Gill Coffee Trading Pvt. Ltd., (2023) 18 SCC 809 (Supreme Court, 13 March 2023) D.Y. Beathel Enterprises v. State Tax Officer, Madras High Court (24 February 2021) Suncraft Energy Pvt. Ltd. v. Assistant Commissioner, State Tax, Calcutta High Court (2 August 2023); SLP dismissed, Supreme Court (14 December 2023) LGW Industries Ltd. v. Union of India, Calcutta High Court (13 December 2021) Gargo Traders v. Joint Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Calcutta High Court (12 June 2023) Additional Commissioner Grade-2 v. Safecon Lifescience Pvt. Ltd., Allahabad High Court (9 September 2025); SLP dismissed, Supreme Court (17 July 2026) Commissioner of Trade and Taxes, Delhi v. Shanti Kiran India Pvt. Ltd., Supreme Court (16 October 2025) Radha Krishan Industries v. State of Himachal Pradesh, (2021) 6 SCC 771 (Supreme Court, 20 April 2021) Gauhati High Court order on provisional attachment under Section 83, as reported (25 June 2026), TaxO “Custodial Interrogation Not Needed as Investigation Complete: Chhattisgarh HC Grants Bail in ₹11.44 Crore Fake GST ITC Case,” 2026 TAXSCAN (HC) 585 CBIC Instruction No. 05/2023-GST on use of investigation/intelligence material in adjudication DGGI enforcement data on fake ITC detections, FY 2024-25/2025-26, as reported in trade publications Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Fake ITCGoods And Services TaxGSTinput tax credit Author Info Name: Khanindra Das Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: Advocate & CS | Civil, Corporate & Taxation Matters | Customs, International Trade | IBC | Compliance & Contracts | High Court Practitioner Location: Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 36 View full profile → More from Khanindra Das GST on Transfer of Leasehold Rights In Industrial Land: Is The Question Really Settled? October 4, 2026 Supplier GST Default Cannot Automatically Deny Bona Fide Buyer’s ITC September 27, 2026 Section 16(2)(c) of CGST Act, 2017: Constitutional Battle over Input Tax Credit September 26, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GSTAT Lucknow Quashes E-Way Bill Penalty for Bona Fide 9-Minute Delay October 4, 2026 Recent GST Updates: GSTN Appeals, emSigner, GSTAT SOPs & Multistate Registration October 4, 2026 Bank Credits Are Not Sales: Limits of Estimating GST Turnover from a Current Account October 4, 2026 GST on Transfer of Leasehold Rights In Industrial Land: Is The Question Really Settled? October 4, 2026 GST Tax Invoice for Goods: Mandatory Particulars and Compliance Significance October 4, 2026 GST Penalties: Understanding Defaults, Consequences and Legal Safeguards October 4, 2026