Dr. Ying Li Compton Named PCAOB Chief Economist and Director of Its Office of Economic and Risk Analysis WASHINGTON, Jun. 29, 2026 The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) today announced the appointment of Dr. Ying Li Compton as the PCAOB's Chief Economist and Director of its Office of Economic and Risk Analysis (OERA). At the PCAOB, OERA conducts independent, evidence-based economic and risk analyses to inform the organization’s oversight activities, including inspections, investigations, rulemaking, standard setting, and post-implementation reviews. “Evidence-based economic and risk analyses are critical to strengthening the PCAOB’s oversight and, by extension, its ability to accomplish its investor-protection mission,” said PCAOB Chairman Demetrios (Jim) Logothetis. “Dr. Compton brings to the PCAOB a strong combination of analytical experience and accounting expertise.” Dr. Compton joins the PCAOB from PwC International Limited, where she served as a managing director advising the Global Assurance Leadership Team. Before that, she was chief of staff to the PwC US Assurance Leader. Prior to joining PwC, Dr. Compton served as Senior Accounting and Economic Advisor to the Chief Accountant in the SEC’s Office of the Chief Accountant, after beginning her time at the agency as a financial economist in the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis. Previously, Dr. Compton worked as an assistant professor of accounting at the George Washington University and Baruch College. She holds a Ph.D. in accounting from Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “It is an honor to join the PCAOB and my OERA colleagues, and I look forward to our work together to build on the PCAOB’s reputation for high-quality analysis,” said Dr. Compton. Dr. Erik Durbin, who was named the Acting Chief Economist and Acting OERA Director in December 2025, will resume his role as OERA’s Deputy Chief Economist, Economic Analysis, responsible for the process and teams that develop the economic analysis for standard-setting and rulemaking projects and for the post-implementation review of their effectiveness. “We thank Erik, both for stepping in as Acting Director during a transition period and for his continued contributions as an important member of the OERA team,” added Chairman Logothetis. *****About the PCAOBThe PCAOB is a nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee the audits of public companies in order to protect investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. The PCAOB also oversees the audits of brokers and dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including compliance reports filed pursuant to federal securities laws. Related Topics About the PCAOB