Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 15196 Case Name DCIT Vs Castrol India Ltd. ( Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); DCIT Vs Castrol India Ltd. (Supreme Court of India) Summary: The Supreme Court of India dismissed the Revenue’s Special Leave Petition arising from the Bombay High Court judgment in Castrol India Ltd. v. DCIT, concerning the validity of reassessment proceedings initiated under Section 148 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, in relation to deduction claimed under Section 80G for donations made from Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure. The Supreme Court recorded that there was a gross delay of 268 days in filing the SLP, which the petitioners had failed to explain satisfactorily. Accordingly, the SLP was dismissed solely on the ground of delay, and pending applications were disposed of. The Supreme Court did not examine or decide the substantive questions concerning CSR donations, deduction under Section 80G, audit objections or reopening of assessment. The detailed findings on these issues belong to the Bombay High Court judgment. Read HC Judgment in this case: Bombay HC Quashes CSR Donation Reassessment Based on Change of Opinion Background of the Reassessment Dispute Castrol India Ltd., engaged in manufacturing and distributing lubricating oils and related products, filed its return for Assessment Year 2017-18 on 30 November 2017, declaring total income of Rs. 1043,79,64,000. The company added back CSR expenditure of Rs. 15,27,42,467 in accordance with Explanation 2 to Section 37 of the Income Tax Act. Separately, it claimed a deduction of Rs. 6,18,60,803 under Section 80G, representing 50% of eligible donations amounting to Rs. 12,37,21,606 made to approved trusts and institutions. During scrutiny assessment, the Assessing Officer issued notices under Section 142(1) seeking details and supporting evidence. The company furnished its computation of income, explanations and donation receipts. The assessment was completed under Section 143(3) on 17 December 2019, determining total income at Rs. 1044,50,66,250. Subsequently, the Department’s Audit Wing raised objections concerning the original assessment, including the deduction allowed under Section 80G. Although the Assessing Officer had initially defended the original assessment before the audit party, a reopening notice dated 27 March 2021 was issued under Section 148. The assessee’s objections were rejected on 21 December 2021, prompting a writ petition before the Bombay High Court. Bombay High Court’s Findings on CSR Donations and Reassessment Section 80G Deduction Was Distinct from Business Expenditure The Revenue argued that expenditure disallowed under Section 37(1), read with Explanation 2, could not subsequently qualify for deduction under Section 80G. It contended that permitting such a deduction would defeat the public welfare objective of mandatory CSR expenditure. The Bombay High Court rejected this position in the circumstances of the case. It observed that donations made to eligible trusts could qualify for deduction under Section 80G even where the contributions were made from CSR funds. The company had not claimed CSR expenditure as deductible business expenditure under Section 37. Instead, it had added back the CSR expenditure and separately claimed the eligible donation deduction under Section 80G. Audit Objection Did Not Supply Fresh Tangible Material The High Court examined the original assessment record and found that the Assessing Officer had specifically sought information regarding the deduction. The assessee had furnished explanations, supporting receipts and the relevant computation of income. The Court found that the recorded reasons for reopening were based on the same profit and loss account, computation and supporting documents that were already available during the original scrutiny assessment. The assertion in the reopening reasons that the Assessing Officer had not sought information and that the assessee had not furnished details was inconsistent with the assessment record. Applying the principles laid down in Commissioner of Income Tax v. Kelvinator of India Ltd., the High Court held that the power to reassess could not be exercised as a power to review an earlier assessment merely because the Assessing Officer subsequently changed his opinion. The Court also relied on Aroni Commercials Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax for the proposition that once a query has been raised and answered during scrutiny assessment, the matter is treated as having been considered by the Assessing Officer. The absence of an express discussion in the assessment order does not, by itself, establish that the issue was never examined. The High Court further explained that the Supreme Court’s observations in Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax v. Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Brokers Pvt. Ltd. could not justify reopening a completed scrutiny assessment merely to reconsider material already examined. Although conclusive proof of escaped income is not required at the notice stage, the requisite belief must have a legally sustainable foundation. High Court Quashed the Reopening Notice The Bombay High Court concluded that the assessee had disclosed the relevant material and that the reopening was founded on an impermissible change of opinion rather than fresh tangible material. The Court therefore quashed the notice dated 27 March 2021 issued under Section 148 and the order dated 21 December 2021 rejecting the assessee’s objections. The writ petition was allowed without an order as to costs. Supreme Court Dismisses Revenue’s SLP on Delay The Revenue challenged the Bombay High Court judgment before the Supreme Court through a Special Leave Petition. However, the Supreme Court recorded a gross delay of 268 days in filing the petition and found that the delay had not been satisfactorily explained. Consequently, the Supreme Court dismissed the SLP on the ground of delay and disposed of pending applications. The order contains no independent discussion of the merits of the Bombay High Court’s findings. Accordingly, the Bombay High Court’s order quashing the reassessment remained undisturbed. However, the dismissal of the SLP on limitation grounds should not be described as an express affirmation by the Supreme Court of the High Court’s reasoning on CSR donations or reassessment. Cases Discussed Commissioner of Income Tax, Delhi v. Kelvinator of India Ltd., (2010) 2 SCC 723 (Supreme Court) — Relied upon and applied by the Bombay High Court for the distinction between reassessment and review. Reopening cannot be based merely on a change of opinion and requires tangible material having a live nexus with the belief that income escaped assessment. Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax v. Rajesh Jhaveri Stock Brokers Pvt. Ltd. (Supreme Court) — Considered by the Bombay High Court in relation to the requirement of relevant material at the stage of issuing a reopening notice. The Court explained that the decision could not be invoked to justify reconsideration of an issue already examined in the original scrutiny assessment. The supplied text does not state the reporter citation. Aroni Commercials Limited v. Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax–2(1), (2014) 44 taxmann.com 304 (Bombay High Court) — Relied upon and applied for the proposition that an issue raised through an assessment query and answered by the assessee is treated as having been considered by the Assessing Officer, even if the assessment order does not expressly discuss it. Conclusion The Supreme Court’s dismissal of the Revenue’s SLP leaves the Bombay High Court’s decision in favour of Castrol India Ltd. undisturbed. The High Court had held that the reassessment proceedings were invalid because the relevant CSR expenditure and Section 80G deduction had already been examined during the original assessment and no fresh tangible material justified reopening. The case illustrates the distinction between the substantive reasoning of a High Court judgment and the procedural effect of a subsequent Supreme Court order. The Bombay High Court’s findings concern the eligibility of donations under Section 80G and the prohibition against reopening on a mere change of opinion, whereas the Supreme Court’s order is confined to dismissal of the SLP for an unexplained delay of 268 days. FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER 1. There is a gross delay of 268 days in filing the Special Leave Petition which has not been satisfactorily explained by the petitioners. 2. The Special Leave Petition is, accordingly, dismissed on the ground of delay. 3. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under corporate social responsibilityCSRsupreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,403 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Bombay HC Quashes CSR Donation Reassessment Based on Change of Opinion October 9, 2026 NCLAT Upholds Joint Insolvency Application Against Three Real Estate Project Companies October 9, 2026 SC Restores Arbitration Appeal for Merits Hearing Despite Commercial Division Transfer Objection October 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law SC Restores Arbitration Appeal for Merits Hearing Despite Commercial Division Transfer Objection October 9, 2026 SC Upholds Dismissal of 337-Day Delayed Arbitration Appeal Despite High Court Legal Error October 9, 2026 Allahabad HC Rejects Arbitration Appeal as 337-Day Delay Remained Unexplained October 9, 2026 Sufficient Cause, Not Delay Length, Determines Condonation: Supreme Court October 9, 2026 Kerala Arbitration Awards Reopening Act Unconstitutional for Violating Separation of Powers: SC October 9, 2026 Decree Holders Are Separate Class of Creditors Under IBC, Not Financial Creditors: Tripura HC October 9, 2026