Summary: Every IPO you read about in the pink papers begins with one filing. Not the listing bell, not the anchor allotment — a document called the Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP). It is the moment a private company voluntarily submits itself to the disclosure discipline of a listed one, months before a single share is priced. Most explanations stop at “it’s the draft prospectus for an IPO.” That is true, and it is also where the interesting part begins. The DRHP derives its name from the historical red disclaimer stating that the document is incomplete, subject to change and does not contain the final price or final number of securities on offer. It is filed under the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, read alongside the disclosure obligations of the Companies Act, 2013, particularly Sections 26 and 32. The document contains risk factors, business and industry information, capital structure and objects of the issue, promoter and group disclosures, and financial information. Its financial core comprises Restated Financial Statements, requiring consistent and comparable presentation and significant application of Ind AS 8, Ind AS 109, Ind AS 115, Ind AS 116 and Ind AS 24. The auditor’s examination report and comfort letter are important deliverables in the process. The DRHP then progresses through the observation-letter stage, RHP and final prospectus as price and quantity move from unknown to fixed. For finance professionals, the DRHP provides a concentrated illustration of accounting, corporate law and securities disclosure requirements operating simultaneously on one transaction. What the Draft Red Herring Prospectus actually contains — and why the auditor sits closer to the centre of it than most people realise. Why “Red Herring”? The name is not marketing. It comes from the disclaimer historically printed in red on the cover: a statement that the document is incomplete and subject to change, and that it does not yet contain the final price or the final number of securities on offer. That single omission — price and quantum — is the entire legal reason the DRHP exists as a distinct instrument. Under the book-building route, price is discovered, not declared. So the issuer files a document complete in every other respect, runs the process, and only then fixes the number. The “incompleteness” is deliberate architecture, not a gap. Table of Contents▸ Where It Sits in Law The Anatomy of the Document The Financial Core — The Auditor’s Territory The Lifecycle: DRHP → RHP → Prospectus Why This Matters Beyond IPO Teams Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Where It Sits in Law A DRHP is filed under the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 — the ICDR Regulations — read alongside the disclosure obligations of the Companies Act, 2013 (Sections 26 and 32 in particular, which govern prospectus content and the red-herring concept respectively). The filing goes to SEBI and to the stock exchanges where listing is sought. SEBI does not “approve” the merits of the issue — it never certifies that the IPO is a good investment. It reviews the adequacy and accuracy of disclosure. When satisfied, it issues an observation letter, and the exchanges issue their in-principle approval. That observation letter is the starting gun. Under ICDR, the issuer then has 12 months (or 18 months in the case of confidential pre-filings) to launch the issue — or refile and restart. That clock, and SEBI’s recent one-time extension of it, is a story for another article. The Anatomy of the Document A DRHP is not a brochure. It is a structured risk-and-disclosure instrument. The spine of it: Risk Factors. Ranked, specific, and unflattering by design. A well-drafted risk section reads like a confession — because regulators want the downside stated before the upside is sold. Business Overview & Industry Data. The equity story, disciplined by requirements around the source and independence of any market data cited. Capital Structure & Objects of the Issue. How the money will be used — the “objects clause” — which later becomes a monitoring obligation, not just a paragraph. Promoter & Group Disclosures. Promoter background, related-party dealings, litigation, and group-company financials. Financial Information. This is where the document is won or lost — and where those of us from audit live. The Financial Core — The Auditor’s Territory The financial section of a DRHP is built on Restated Financial Statements, and the word restated carries real weight. ICDR requires financial information for the relevant periods to be presented on a consistent, comparable basis — meaning historical numbers are recast to apply uniform accounting policies across all periods presented, to correct prior errors, and to reflect the current Ind AS framework throughout. A company that changed a policy, corrected a misstatement, or migrated to Ind AS mid-period cannot show investors the numbers “as originally reported.” It must show them as they would have been, applied consistently. This is not a mechanical exercise. It is judgement-heavy Ind AS work: Ind AS 8 logic drives the restatement for policy changes and error corrections. Ind AS 109 / 115 / 116 treatments — financial instruments, revenue, leases — often differ from what a formerly-private company reported under legacy practice, and each recast must hold up across every period. Related-party disclosures (Ind AS 24) get scrutinised with an intensity most private companies have never faced. Sitting alongside the restated financials is the auditor’s examination report on them, and — as the issue progresses — the comfort letter the auditors provide to the merchant bankers. The comfort letter is where the auditor takes a defined responsibility for the financial information travelling into the offer document. It is one of the quieter, higher-stakes deliverables in the entire process. The lesson I keep returning to: an IPO is an accounting event long before it is a market event. By the time the DRHP is filed, the financial architecture is effectively frozen. The real work happened in the eighteen months before. The Lifecycle: DRHP → RHP → Prospectus The DRHP is one stage in a sequence, and each stage has a precise identity: DRHP — filed with SEBI; no final price, no final quantum. The draft. Observation Letter — SEBI’s comments addressed; the clock starts. RHP (Red Herring Prospectus) — filed with the RoC before the issue opens. Price band and issue mechanics now in; still book-built. Prospectus — filed with the RoC after the price is discovered and allotment is done. The final, complete document. The “draft” becomes “red herring” becomes “final” as two variables — price and quantity — move from unknown to fixed. Everything else was locked much earlier. Why This Matters Beyond IPO Teams You do not need to be running a live IPO to care about the DRHP. It is the single best worked example of what full disclosure discipline looks like when a company has nowhere to hide: Every accounting policy justified and applied consistently across years. Every related-party arrangement surfaced. Every material litigation and contingency disclosed. Every restatement explained. For a finance professional, reading a DRHP cover to cover is one of the most efficient ways to see Ind AS, the Companies Act, and SEBI’s disclosure regime operating simultaneously on a single set of numbers. That intersection — several frameworks bearing on one transaction at once — is where the genuinely interesting work lives. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013LODR RegulationsSEBI Author Info Name: Arnab Mitra Qualification: Student - CA/CS/CMA Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 3 View full profile → More from Arnab Mitra Pre-IPO Runway: What 18 Months Before DRHP Filing Actually Demand September 11, 2026 Ceteris Paribus: When All Else Isn’t Equal September 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in SEBI Company Secretary’s Role in DPDP Compliance and Cybersecurity Governance September 17, 2026 SEBI Renews Recognition of NSE Clearing Limited for Three Years from 3 October 2026 September 17, 2026 SEBI Renews Recognition of Metropolitan Stock Exchange for One Year from 16 September 2026 September 17, 2026 Measures to Strengthen BCP and DR of Market Infrastructure Institutions – SEBI Consultation Paper September 16, 2026 Board Appointment Rights & Corporate Control: A Purposive Interpretation in InvIT Framework September 12, 2026 SEBI Seeks Comments on Closing Auction Session Review September 12, 2026