Summary: Forward charge is the normal mechanism for collection of GST under which the supplier making a taxable outward supply generally charges GST to the recipient and bears responsibility for reporting and paying the tax to the Government. Its statutory foundation includes section 9(1) of the CGST Act for intra-State supplies and section 5(1) of the IGST Act for inter-State supplies, while reverse charge operates as a statutory exception for specified transactions. Forward charge connects several aspects of GST compliance, including registration, determination of taxability and place of supply, tax invoicing, time of supply, payment through electronic ledgers and input tax credit. Section 31 of the CGST Act and Rule 46 of the CGST Rules govern tax invoices, while sections 12 and 13 determine the time of supply and section 49 deals with payment mechanisms. The compliance chain has become increasingly digital through e-invoicing, including the ₹5 crore threshold introduced by Notification No. 10/2023–Central Tax with effect from 1 August 2023. Input tax credit remains subject to statutory conditions and restrictions, as illustrated by the Supreme Court’s decision in Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Limited. Businesses therefore need to coordinate invoicing, return reporting, tax payment, ITC eligibility, reconciliation and changes in GST notifications and rules. Table of Contents▸ Abstract Introduction Legal Framework 1. Statutory basis of forward charge 2. Registration and the supplier's responsibility 3. Tax invoice and documentation 4. Time and payment of tax Contemporary / Practical Analysis Practical example: sale of goods under forward charge E-invoicing and the digital compliance chain Input Tax Credit: benefit and compliance condition Forward charge versus reverse charge Critical Discussion Conclusion and Suggestions References Show all 15 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Abstract The Goods and Services Tax (GST) system generally places the responsibility of paying tax on the supplier making a taxable supply. This is known as the forward charge mechanism. It is the ordinary method through which GST is collected and is therefore central to understanding registration, invoicing, payment, input tax credit and compliance. This blog explains the statutory foundation of forward charge under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act) and the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (IGST Act), distinguishes it from reverse charge, and applies the law to a practical business transaction. It also examines contemporary compliance through e-invoicing and discusses how recent judicial decisions concerning input tax credit illustrate the importance of maintaining a coherent tax-credit chain. Introduction GST was introduced as a destination-based indirect tax on the supply of goods and services. Under the ordinary model, the person who makes the taxable outward supply is responsible for charging the applicable GST from the recipient, issuing the prescribed tax invoice and paying the collected tax to the Government. This ordinary model is called the forward charge mechanism. Section 9(1) of the CGST Act provides for levy of central tax on intra-State supplies, subject to the statutory exceptions, while section 5(1) of the IGST Act provides for levy of integrated tax on inter-State supplies (CGST Act, 2017, s. 9; IGST Act, 2017, s. 5). The importance of forward charge is practical as well as legal. A registered supplier must correctly determine whether the transaction is taxable, identify the nature and place of supply, determine the applicable rate, issue a compliant invoice and report the transaction through the GST system. The supplier then pays the tax, normally using the electronic cash ledger and eligible input tax credit in accordance with the Act. Thus, forward charge is not merely a method of collecting tax; it connects several stages of GST compliance. The contemporary issue is that this apparently simple mechanism operates through increasingly digital compliance systems. E-invoicing, electronic records and return matching have made the accuracy of the supplier’s outward-supply data more significant for both the supplier and the recipient. The law therefore needs to be understood as a complete compliance chain rather than as a single obligation to add GST to a bill. Legal Framework 1. Statutory basis of forward charge Section 9(1) of the CGST Act is the principal charging provision for intra-State supplies. It levies CGST on taxable intra-State supplies of goods or services or both, on the value determined under section 15 and at notified rates. For inter-State supplies, section 5(1) of the IGST Act levies IGST. The supplier remains the person responsible for paying the tax unless the law specifically shifts that responsibility to another person. This last point is important because reverse charge is an exception rather than the basic structure. Section 9(3) empowers the Government, on the recommendations of the GST Council, to notify categories of supplies for which the recipient must pay tax. Section 9(4) separately deals with specified supplies received from unregistered suppliers. Similar provisions appear in section 5(3) and 5(4) of the IGST Act. CBIC explains reverse charge as a situation in which the liability to pay tax is placed on the recipient instead of the supplier (CBIC, n.d.-a). 2. Registration and the supplier’s responsibility Forward charge normally operates after the supplier becomes liable or chooses to become registered under GST. Section 22 provides the general registration framework, subject to the statutory threshold and exceptions. CBIC’s official FAQ explains that aggregate turnover is computed on an all-India basis for persons having the same PAN and includes taxable supplies, exempt supplies, exports and inter-State supplies, while excluding specified tax components and inward supplies on which reverse charge is payable (CBIC, n.d.-a; CBIC, n.d.-b). Once registered and making a taxable outward supply, the supplier cannot treat GST collection as a purely commercial choice. The tax must be correctly determined and documented. A supplier who incorrectly charges, undercharges or fails to report taxable outward supplies can create tax exposure for itself and compliance problems for the recipient. 3. Tax invoice and documentation Section 31 of the CGST Act and the corresponding rules govern tax invoices. Rule 46 of the CGST Rules specifies important particulars, including the supplier’s GSTIN, invoice number and date, recipient details where applicable, HSN or service accounting code, description, taxable value, rate of tax, amount of tax charged and other prescribed information. CBIC’s invoice guidance confirms these requirements and also provides specific rules concerning invoices for services (CBIC, n.d.-c). The invoice is especially important under forward charge because it is the document through which the supplier communicates the taxable value and GST to the recipient. A properly issued invoice supports accounting, return reporting and, where statutory conditions are satisfied, the recipient’s claim to input tax credit. 4. Time and payment of tax The liability under forward charge is connected with the statutory rules on time of supply. Sections 12 and 13 of the CGST Act prescribe the time of supply for goods and services respectively. The precise rule depends on the nature of the supply and the relevant statutory conditions. Once tax becomes payable, the registered person must discharge the liability through the GST payment mechanism. Section 49 deals with payment of tax, interest, penalty and other amounts and the operation of the electronic ledgers. The practical lesson is that invoicing and tax payment cannot be viewed separately. A supplier may have issued an invoice correctly but still face consequences if the corresponding tax is not properly reported and discharged. Conversely, an incorrect invoice can affect the recipient’s compliance and credit position even when the underlying transaction is genuine. Contemporary / Practical Analysis Practical example: sale of goods under forward charge Consider an example in which Company A, a GST-registered manufacturer in Punjab, sells taxable machinery worth ₹10,00,000 to Company B, a registered buyer in Punjab. Assuming the supply is intra-State and the applicable GST rate is 18%, Company A issues a tax invoice showing a taxable value of ₹10,00,000 and GST of ₹1,80,000, comprising CGST and SGST as prescribed. Company B pays ₹11,80,000 to Company A, and Company A is responsible for reporting and paying the GST of ₹1,80,000, subject to its eligible input tax credit and the applicable statutory provisions. The transaction demonstrates the normal route. The supplier makes the supply, charges GST, issues the invoice, reports the outward supply and pays the tax. The recipient, if otherwise eligible under section 16 and related provisions, may claim input tax credit against its output tax liability. GST therefore attempts to tax value addition while allowing credit through the supply chain, subject to the conditions and restrictions imposed by law. E-invoicing and the digital compliance chain A significant contemporary development is e-invoicing. The official e-invoice portal records that Notification No. 10/2023–Central Tax reduced the threshold for mandatory e-invoicing to an aggregate annual turnover of ₹5 crore or more, effective from 1 August 2023, subject to the applicable rules and exemptions. The GST system uses the Invoice Registration Portal to generate an Invoice Reference Number (IRN), and the information can flow into GST reporting systems (GSTN, 2023). For forward-charge suppliers covered by the e-invoice mandate, this means that the tax invoice is not only an accounting document. It is also part of an electronically validated compliance process. Errors in GSTIN, taxable value, tax rate, HSN or other invoice fields can therefore have consequences beyond a simple clerical mistake. Businesses need effective reconciliation between their ERP or accounting software, e-invoice records and GST returns. Input Tax Credit: benefit and compliance condition Forward charge is closely connected with input tax credit (ITC). Section 16 establishes the basic entitlement framework, but ITC is subject to statutory conditions and restrictions. The Supreme Court’s decision in Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Limited, 2024 INSC 756, examined the restrictions under section 17(5), particularly in relation to construction of immovable property. The Court upheld the constitutional validity of the relevant restrictions and discussed when a building may fall within the expression ‘plant’ for purposes of section 17(5)(d), applying a functionality-based approach to the facts (Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax v. Safari Retreats, 2024). The case is relevant to forward charge because it demonstrates that paying GST on an outward supply does not automatically create an unrestricted right to credit all GST paid on inputs. The credit mechanism remains controlled by the statute. A business therefore has to examine both sides of the transaction: the GST charged on its outward supplies and the eligibility of credit on its inward supplies. Forward charge versus reverse charge Basis Forward Charge Reverse Charge Person liable to pay Normally the supplier Recipient for notified supplies Basic statutory position Ordinary rule under charging provisions Specific statutory exception/notification Invoice responsibility Supplier generally issues tax invoice Recipient may have prescribed documentation obligations Commercial flow Supplier charges GST to recipient Recipient pays GST to Government as required Example Registered manufacturer making taxable sale Notified category where recipient is liable The distinction is not merely about who physically transfers money to the Government. It affects registration, invoicing, accounting, reporting and the recipient’s compliance. The Supreme Court’s GST jurisprudence has also repeatedly treated the statutory design and ITC chain as important features of the tax system. For example, Union of India v. Mohit Minerals Pvt. Ltd., (2022) 10 SCC 700, arose in the context of reverse charge and the levy relating to ocean freight, illustrating the importance of identifying the statutory basis on which liability is shifted to the recipient. Critical Discussion Forward charge has the advantage of making the primary tax obligation relatively clear: the person making the taxable outward supply generally charges and pays the tax. This fits ordinary commercial practice because the supplier already issues the invoice and records the sale. It also creates a visible documentary trail from supply to tax payment. At the same time, the mechanism can create practical difficulties. First, classification of a transaction as taxable, exempt or outside the scope of GST can require detailed analysis. Secondly, determining the place of supply is essential for deciding whether CGST and SGST/UTGST or IGST applies. Thirdly, tax rates and exemptions are subject to notifications and changes, requiring businesses to keep their compliance systems updated. Finally, digital reporting means that small data errors can affect multiple records. Another challenge concerns the relationship between supplier compliance and recipient ITC. The recipient’s business decision may depend on the availability of credit, but the legal entitlement to ITC is governed by statutory conditions. The forward-charge invoice therefore has significance for both parties. A supplier should not regard GST compliance as ending when an invoice is issued; reconciliation, return reporting and payment remain essential. A balanced compliance approach is consequently required. Businesses should maintain a taxability and classification checklist, verify GSTIN and place-of-supply details, reconcile invoices with e-invoices where applicable, review ITC conditions and monitor amendments to notifications and rules. These steps are particularly relevant for businesses with high transaction volumes. Conclusion and Suggestions Forward charge remains the normal route of GST collection in India. Under this mechanism, the supplier of a taxable supply generally bears the statutory responsibility to charge and pay GST, while reverse charge applies only where the law specifically shifts liability to the recipient. The mechanism is supported by provisions dealing with levy, registration, time of supply, invoicing, payment and input tax credit. The practical operation of forward charge has become increasingly digital. E-invoicing and electronic reporting have strengthened the connection between commercial invoices and tax administration. For businesses, this makes accuracy and reconciliation more important than ever. The objective should not be limited to avoiding penalties; proper documentation also protects legitimate tax positions and supports the recipient’s compliance. Three practical suggestions follow. First, taxpayers should determine taxability and place of supply before raising the invoice. Second, they should reconcile sales registers, e-invoices and GST returns periodically rather than waiting until the end of the financial year. Third, businesses should maintain a current database of GST notifications, rate changes and ITC restrictions. A forward-charge transaction may appear routine, but its legal consequences run through the entire GST compliance chain. References Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs. (n.d.-a). Frequently Asked Questions on GST. Government of India. https://cbic-gst.gov.in/faq.html Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs. (n.d.-b). Sectoral FAQs on GST. Government of India. https://cbic-gst.gov.in/sectoral-faq.html Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs. (n.d.-c). Tax Invoice, Credit and Debit Notes. Government of India. https://cbic-gst.gov.in/gst-invoice-rules.html Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, No. 12 of 2017 (India). Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017 (India). Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, No. 13 of 2017 (India). Goods and Services Tax Network. (2023). Steps for e-Invoicing. Government of India. https://tutorial.gst.gov.in/downloads/news/pamphlet_e_invoice_overview_updated_on_17_08_2023_approved_final.pdf Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors., 2024 INSC 756 (Supreme Court of India). Union of India & Anr. v. Mohit Minerals Pvt. Ltd. through Director, (2022) 10 SCC 700 (Supreme Court of India). Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: Lavanya Rajvi Qualification: Graduate Location: Jaipur, Rajasthan Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax HC Can Condon GST Appeal Delay Beyond Section 107 Limit: Rajasthan High Court September 26, 2026 Rajasthan HC Condoned GST Appeal Delay Citing Portal Service & Medical Circumstances September 26, 2026 Punjab and Haryana HC Grants Bail in Alleged Rs.13.09 Crore GST Fraud September 26, 2026 One-Day Delay in Section 129(3) Notice Vitiates GST Proceedings: J&K HC September 26, 2026 GST Portal Error Correctable Under Section 161 Without Fresh Adjudication: Delhi HC September 26, 2026 Voluminous E-Way Bill Analysis Prompts Interim GST Protection: Gujarat HC September 26, 2026