Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Tata Steel Limited has announced its provisional production and delivery volumes for the second quarter of the fiscal year 2027, showcasing significant growth across its operations in India, the Netherlands, and Thailand. The company reported a notable increase in both production and delivery volumes, driven by enhanced output and a robust market demand. In India, Tata Steel achieved a crude steel production of 6.21 million tons in 2QFY27, marking an 8% increase quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) and a 10% rise year-on-year (YoY). This growth was primarily attributed to higher output at its Jamshedpur and Kalinganagar facilities. On a half-year basis, production rose by 10% YoY to 11.97 million tons. Deliveries in India also saw a substantial increase, reaching 5.97 million tons, up 15% QoQ and 7% YoY, supported by a diverse product mix and stable demand across market segments. Tata Steel Netherlands reported a liquid steel production of 1.52 million tons for the quarter, with deliveries amounting to 1.30 million tons. The Direct Sheet Plant, which resumed operations in August 2026, is now functioning at full capacity under an agreed framework with local authorities. For the first half of the fiscal year, production and deliveries stood at 3.07 million tons and 2.70 million tons, respectively. In Thailand, Tata Steel’s saleable steel production was recorded at 0.32 million tons, with deliveries slightly lower at 0.31 million tons, impacted by adverse weather conditions in September. Meanwhile, Tata Steel UK faced challenges due to inventory buildup in the supply chain ahead of new safeguard measures, resulting in deliveries of 0.38 million tons for the quarter. Analysts have noted that Tata Steel’s robust performance in the second quarter reflects its strategic focus on enhancing production capabilities and diversifying its product offerings. The company’s ability to maintain growth amid challenging market conditions underscores its resilience and adaptability. As Tata Steel continues to expand its operations and optimise its product mix, market observers remain optimistic about its future prospects in the global steel industry. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business BMC collaborates with Godrej Properties and RC Group for Bandra Bay promenade October 7, 2026 Tata Power collaborates with Ocean Sun on innovative floating solar project in India October 7, 2026 Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories to announce Q2FY27 results on 23 October 2026 October 7, 2026 Airtel introduces free roaming on all postpaid plans October 7, 2026 Sun Pharma establishes endowed professorship to advance dermatologic care October 6, 2026 Godrej Consumer Products Opens New Manufacturing Facility in Indonesia October 6, 2026