Copper Is Not Just an LME Price: Why Commodity Transfer Pricing Is Becoming More Sophisticated Summary: Copper transfer pricing cannot be determined merely by applying an LME or other commodity quotation. While the Comparable Uncontrolled Price method is generally the natural starting point for a mineral transaction supported by transparent market data, the arm’s-length outcome depends on the actual product and commercial terms. For copper concentrate, the analysis must account for payable metal, gold and silver by-product credits, impurity penalties, treatment and refining charges, moisture, freight, delivery terms, quotational periods, payment terms and contractual pricing optionality. The OECD/IGF copper framework highlights that a benchmark quotation must be reconciled through commercially supportable adjustments before it can serve as a reliable CUP. Where a group trading entity is involved, its remuneration must reflect genuine functions, assets and risks, such as hedging, logistics, working capital, inventory and credit risk; its location or trading label alone does not justify a disproportionate share of mining value. A defensible transfer-pricing analysis should therefore contain the commercial contract, shipment and assay records, pricing computations and a transparent bridge from the benchmark quotation to the invoice value. Copper looks like the perfect commodity for a straightforward transfer pricing analysis. There is an active global market. The London Metal Exchange publishes copper prices. COMEX and the Shanghai Futures Exchange provide additional reference points. Price-reporting agencies publish concentrate prices, treatment and refining charges, and cathode premiums. So if a mining company sells copper to a related trading company, surely the arm’s-length price is simply the market quotation? Not quite. The OECD and the Intergovernmental Forum on Mining are scheduled to release Determining the Price of Minerals: A Transfer Pricing Framework for Copper on 21 September 2026. The report applies the OECD/IGF mineral-pricing framework specifically to copper and uses the Comparable Uncontrolled Price, or CUP, method to identify the economic factors that actually influence the arm’s-length price. At the research cut-off for this article, the OECD still lists the final 45-page report as forthcoming; the analysis below therefore relies on the existing OECD/IGF mineral-pricing framework and the published copper consultation draft rather than assuming changes in the unreleased final text. The practical message is important far beyond mining: A quoted market price can be the starting point of a CUP. It is rarely the whole CUP. Table of Contents▸ Why Copper Creates a Transfer Pricing Risk Despite Transparent Prices CUP Remains the Natural Starting Point A Quoted Price Is Only the Starting Point Copper Concentrate Is Not Refined Copper Payable Copper, By-products and Impurity Penalties Treatment and Refining Charges Can Move the Economics Materially Why TC/RC Deductions Require Arm’s-Length Support Timing Can Be Worth Real Money Quotational Periods, Optionality and Back-pricing Freight and Delivery Terms Cannot Be Ignored FOB, CIF and Netback Adjustments Even Moisture Can Matter, Just Not in the Obvious Way Dry Metric Tonnes and Shipment Evidence What About a Group Trading Company? Functional Analysis of Commodity Traders The Broader Lesson Goes Beyond Copper A Disciplined Commodity-pricing Framework What I Would Review in a Commodity TP File Contract-to-Invoice Reconciliation Closing Perspective Research Basis Show all 21 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Why Copper Creates a Transfer Pricing Risk Despite Transparent Prices The OECD/IGF work is aimed particularly at resource-rich developing countries, where royalties and corporate income taxes frequently depend directly or indirectly on the value attributed to extracted minerals. Related-party mineral sales can therefore create significant base-erosion risk if products are transferred offshore below arm’s-length value. But copper is not one homogeneous transaction. A mine may sell copper concentrate to a group smelter. Another group entity may sell refined cathodes. A Swiss or Singapore trading company may sit between the mine and an independent customer. Concentrate may contain gold and silver as valuable by-products, alongside impurities such as arsenic or mercury that reduce its commercial value. The market quotation solves only one part of that equation. The real transfer pricing analysis asks whether the quoted price and all the adjustments around it reproduce the conditions independent parties would actually have negotiated. CUP Remains the Natural Starting Point The OECD’s broader mineral-pricing framework strongly favours the CUP method where reliable quoted prices or comparable transactions are available. The OECD’s recent work on critical minerals similarly notes that commodity quotations can provide the arm’s-length starting price, but adjustments may be required for product characteristics, timing, delivery terms and other economically relevant differences. The UN Practical Manual takes a similar approach. It recognises that commodity exchanges, price databases and published market information can be useful external comparables, while cautioning that their reliability must still be tested against the actual controlled transaction and the transparency of the underlying market. A Quoted Price Is Only the Starting Point This is an important distinction. The CUP method is not: LME price = transfer price. It is closer to: Quoted market price ± commercially justified comparability adjustments = arm’s-length price. And those adjustments are where most of the technical work begins. Copper Concentrate Is Not Refined Copper Suppose a copper mine in Chile sells concentrate to a related smelter or trading affiliate. The LME Grade A Copper Settlement Price relates to refined copper meeting prescribed specifications. Copper concentrate is an intermediate product. Payable Copper, By-products and Impurity Penalties The OECD/IGF draft therefore starts by determining the quantity of payable copper in the concentrate and applying the quoted copper price over the relevant quotational period. The draft illustrates a commonly observed payable-copper mechanism of 96.7% of contained copper, subject to a minimum deduction, while expressly presenting these terms as industry reference points rather than universal contractual rules. The seller may also receive value for gold and silver contained in the concentrate. Conversely, impurities can create penalties because they increase processing costs, environmental burdens or blending requirements. The draft specifically identifies impurities such as arsenic, antimony, bismuth, cadmium, fluorine and mercury as commercially relevant. A company that benchmarks only the copper content while ignoring valuable by-products may understate the transaction. A company that ignores genuine impurity penalties may overstate it. Both conclusions can be wrong even though the same LME price was used. Treatment and Refining Charges Can Move the Economics Materially Copper concentrate must be processed before becoming refined copper. That is why treatment charges and refining charges, or TC/RCs, are central to concentrate pricing. Why TC/RC Deductions Require Arm’s-Length Support Commercially, they compensate the smelter for converting concentrate into refined metal and are generally deducted from the value payable to the miner. Spot TC/RCs respond to prevailing concentrate and smelting-market conditions, while longer-term contracts frequently refer to negotiated or benchmark charges. This creates an immediate TP issue. Imagine two related-party transactions that both reference exactly the same LME copper price. Transaction A uses an arm’s-length treatment charge reflecting the prevailing market. Transaction B applies a substantially higher deduction without commercial support. The headline copper price is identical. The actual value transferred out of the mining jurisdiction is not. For tax authorities and taxpayers alike, the deduction can therefore be just as important as the quotation. Timing Can Be Worth Real Money Copper prices move daily. The date or period used for pricing can therefore materially affect the result. Quotational Periods, Optionality and Back-pricing Copper contracts frequently use an agreed quotational period, or QP, rather than the spot price on shipment date. The OECD/IGF draft notes that concentrate contracts can use deferred QPs, while copper cathode transactions commonly use an average LME settlement price over the agreed period. This becomes especially sensitive where one related party has optionality. If the buyer can choose from several pricing periods after market movements have already become known, the right itself may carry economic value. The copper draft specifically flags quotational-period optionality and back-pricing privileges as potential pricing risks. In my view, this is one of the most important practical lessons from commodity TP. A contract can reference the correct exchange and still produce a non-arm’s-length result if one party has commercially valuable pricing optionality that an independent seller would not have granted for free. Freight and Delivery Terms Cannot Be Ignored Now assume a quoted benchmark represents delivery into China, while the actual controlled sale is FOB from the mine’s export port. The prices are not directly comparable. FOB, CIF and Netback Adjustments The OECD/IGF draft notes that concentrate may be sold under terms such as CIFFO or FOBST and specifically identifies freight adjustments or “netbacks” where the benchmark and contractual delivery basis differ. This sounds operational rather than tax-related, but it can become a large value adjustment over thousands of tonnes. The same applies to insurance, port handling, title transfer, payment terms and provisional settlement mechanisms. Commodity transfer pricing therefore requires finance, tax and commercial teams to understand the physical supply chain, not merely the accounting invoice. Even Moisture Can Matter, Just Not in the Obvious Way Copper concentrate is commonly shipped with moisture. Dry Metric Tonnes and Shipment Evidence The OECD/IGF draft explains that concentrate pricing is generally based on dry metric tonnes, so moisture should not directly increase the payable copper value. But moisture measurement remains important because freight is incurred on wet tonnes and because converting wet shipment weight into dry tonnes must be accurate. This is an excellent example of why a mineral-pricing analysis cannot be performed from an ERP invoice alone. Sampling reports, assay certificates, weighing records, moisture tests and shipping documents may all become part of the transfer pricing evidence. What About a Group Trading Company? The next question is often more difficult. Suppose a mine sells copper concentrate to a related trading entity in Switzerland, Singapore or the UAE. The trader then resells the product to independent smelters. Functional Analysis of Commodity Traders It may be tempting to calculate the arm’s-length mine price simply by taking the trader’s resale price and deducting a margin. But the functional analysis still matters. What does the trader actually do? Does it assume price risk? Hedge copper exposure? Arrange freight? Provide working capital? Negotiate long-term offtake contracts? Bear inventory or credit risk? Or is it principally an invoicing intermediary? The OECD’s 2023 mineral-pricing framework cautions against artificially portraying the mining producer as commercially weak merely because it belongs to a multinational group. The arm’s-length analysis should reflect the economic circumstances and rational commercial behaviour of an independent mining enterprise. Accordingly, the trader must be remunerated for genuine functions and risks, but a trading label by itself does not justify transferring a disproportionate share of the mineral value offshore. The Broader Lesson Goes Beyond Copper Copper is particularly useful because the market is relatively transparent. If transfer pricing can still become complex where a widely traded commodity has deep exchange pricing, the problem becomes even harder for lithium intermediates, rare-earth products, ores and concentrates that lack robust quoted markets. The OECD/IGF programme has already produced mineral-specific work for bauxite and lithium, and the copper framework is the next step in that broader effort. A Disciplined Commodity-pricing Framework For multinational groups, this points toward a more disciplined commodity-pricing framework: Start with the best available external or internal CUP. Then test the exact product, quality, grade, processing stage, payability, by-products, impurities, TC/RCs, delivery terms, freight, timing, quantity, credit conditions and contractual optionality. Only after those adjustments does the quoted price become meaningfully comparable. What I Would Review in a Commodity TP File For a copper transaction, I would not start with the transfer pricing report. I would start with the commercial contract and physical shipment evidence. Contract-to-Invoice Reconciliation The benchmark quotation should then reconcile to the invoice through a transparent bridge showing each adjustment: payable metal, by-product credits, penalties, TC/RCs, premiums, freight, QP and any other economically material term. That bridge should also reconcile with independent-market information and the actual functions of any trader, marketing company or processing affiliate. If the commercial team cannot explain an adjustment, it will be difficult for the tax team to defend it later. Closing Perspective Commodity transfer pricing is sometimes presented as easier than pricing services or intangibles because an observable market price exists. Copper demonstrates why that assumption is dangerous. The exchange tells us what a standardised form of copper is worth at a particular place and time. Transfer pricing must determine what this copper product, under this contract, delivered under these terms, between these parties, should have been worth. That is a much richer question. And it leads to the central takeaway: A market quotation gives you a price. Transfer pricing has to prove that it is the right price for the actual transaction. For mining groups, commodity traders and tax administrations, the new OECD/IGF copper work is therefore less about introducing a new transfer pricing method and more about applying an existing one with far greater commercial precision. Research Basis This article is based on the OECD/IGF Determining the Price of Minerals: A Transfer Pricing Framework (2023), the OECD/IGF copper consultation draft, the OECD’s publication page for the final copper framework scheduled for 21 September 2026, the OECD Transfer Pricing framework for commodity transactions, and the UN Practical Manual on Transfer Pricing for Developing Countries. At the research cut-off on 21 September 2026, the OECD still described the final copper publication as forthcoming; no conclusion above assumes wording that had not yet been officially released. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Transfer Pricing Author Info Name: Suraj R Agrawal Qualification: CA in Practice Company: AventaaGlobal Advisors LLP Location: Pune, Maharashtra Articles Published: 68 View full profile → More from Suraj R Agrawal FAST-DS 2026: Foreign Bank Account, ESOP & RSU Disclosure Window September 8, 2026 Chinese Investment in India: What the New 10% FDI Rule Means August 22, 2026 Choosing the Right US Market Entry Structure for Indian Businesses August 17, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Taxman in Your Inbox: Privacy and Search Powers under Income-tax Act, 2025 September 21, 2026 Section 54 Allows Habitable-House Costs and Multiple Houses: ITAT Mumbai September 21, 2026 6% Interest Payable on Delayed Vivad Se Vishwas Refund: Bombay HC September 21, 2026 Section 69A Demonetisation Cash Addition Restored for Verification: ITAT Mumbai September 21, 2026 0.25% Commission Rate Reasonable on Unexplained Bank Deposits: ITAT Ahmedabad September 21, 2026 Management Fee TP Adjustment Cannot Be Made Without Justifying CUP Over TNMM: ITAT Mumbai September 21, 2026