Summary: Design registration protects the visual appearance of an article, including qualifying features of shape, configuration, pattern, ornament, lines or colours. In India, protection is governed by the Designs Act, 2000 and the Designs Rules, 2001. To qualify, a design must satisfy statutory requirements including novelty or originality and should not have been publicly disclosed before the relevant filing or priority date. Protection concerns appearance judged by the eye rather than a method of construction, purely mechanical feature or abstract concept. An applicant claiming proprietorship must correctly identify the article and class and submit clear, consistent representations showing the design for which protection is sought. The registration procedure generally involves reviewing the design and its disclosure history, identifying the appropriate article and class, preparing representations, filing the prescribed application with the applicable fee, responding to examination objections and obtaining registration. A registered design is initially protected for 10 years and may be extended for another five years, providing a maximum protection period of 15 years. Registration gives the proprietor statutory rights against specified unauthorised applications and fraudulent or obvious imitations of the registered design. Registration may nevertheless be challenged on statutory grounds, including prior registration or publication and lack of novelty or originality. Businesses should therefore consider protection before publicly launching or displaying a product, maintain clear ownership and development records, preserve registration documents and monitor extension deadlines. Table of Contents▸ Introduction What is a design under Indian law? Why is design registration important? What types of designs can be registered? What are the legal requirements for registration? The design must be new or original The design must not have been publicly disclosed earlier The design must relate to appearance The design must be applied to an article Who can apply for design registration? What documents are required for design registration? How does the design registration process work in India? Step 1: Review the design before filing Step 2: Identify the article and its class Step 3: Prepare the representations Step 4: File the application Step 5: Respond to examination objections Step 6: Registration and publication How long is a design registration valid? What rights does the registered proprietor receive? What is piracy of a registered design? Can a registered design be cancelled? Common mistakes to avoid Revealing the product before assessing registration Claiming technical features as a design Filing inconsistent images Ignoring ownership documents Missing the extension deadline Conclusion Frequently asked questions Show all 30 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction A product’s appearance often shapes a customer’s first impression. The curve of a bottle, the outline of a chair, or the pattern on a fabric can make it recognisable among similar products. Creating that appearance takes time, skill, and investment. If another business copies it, the original creator may lose the commercial value of that work. Design registration offers a way to protect qualifying visual features and gives the registered proprietor legal rights against certain forms of unauthorised copying. In India, design registration is governed by the Designs Act, 2000 and the Designs Rules, 2001, as amended. The law focuses on features such as shape, configuration, pattern, and ornament applied to an article and visible in the finished product. Registration requires more than an attractive idea: the design must meet legal conditions, including novelty. This guide explains who can apply, how to prepare and file an application, how long protection lasts, and what happens after registration. What is a design under Indian law? A design is the visual appearance of an article. It may consist of its shape, configuration, pattern, ornament, or composition of lines or colours. These features can appear in two dimensions, three dimensions, or both. What matters is how they appear in the finished article and whether they are judged by the eye. Consider a table with a distinctive outline and ornamental surface pattern. Those visible features may be relevant to design registration. The engineering method that keeps the table stable is different: design law does not protect a method of construction or a purely mechanical feature. A brand name printed on the table is also a separate intellectual property issue. Design registration therefore focuses on how an article looks, rather than how it works, who manufactures it, or what it is called. Why is design registration important? Businesses often compete on product appearance. Two products may serve the same purpose, yet customers may prefer one because of its shape, finish, or decorative details. If that appearance is copied, the original business may lose the benefit of its design investment. Registration gives the proprietor exclusive rights to apply the registered design to articles in the class for which it is registered, subject to the law. It also provides a clearer basis for licensing the design or taking action against unauthorised imitation. For a manufacturer, startup, fashion business, jewellery brand, or product designer, registration can become a valuable part of the wider intellectual property strategy. The timing of an application is important. Publicly revealing a design before filing can create a problem with the requirement that it be new or original. Businesses should assess design protection while a product is still being developed, before publishing photographs, displaying samples, or beginning sales. What types of designs can be registered? Many kinds of product appearance may qualify. Examples include the distinctive shape of a bottle, the ornamental pattern on a tile, the configuration of a chair, or decorative features applied to jewellery or packaging. A design can involve the overall appearance of an article or particular visual features applied to it. Registration depends on the individual design rather than the product category alone. A bottle is not automatically registrable simply because its maker created it recently. Its claimed appearance must meet the legal requirements. Likewise, a familiar shape with a small, routine alteration may be difficult to protect if it does not differ sufficiently from designs already known to the public. The application must also identify the article to which the design is applied. Clear images and an accurate article description are essential because they help establish what the applicant is seeking to protect. What are the legal requirements for registration? The design must be new or original A design should have a visual character that is new or original when compared with designs already known. Originality does not necessarily require every component to be invented from scratch. However, the overall design must satisfy the legal test and cannot simply copy an existing appearance. Before filing, an applicant should examine similar products and registered designs. This helps identify potential objections and gives the business a better understanding of which features make its design distinctive. The design must not have been publicly disclosed earlier A design disclosed to the public before the filing date, or the applicable priority date, may be refused registration. Disclosure can occur through product sales, catalogues, websites, social media posts, trade displays, or other means. Disclosure outside India can also be relevant. A business should keep a record of when the design was created, who had access to it, and when it was first shown publicly. If a product has already been launched, its disclosure history should be reviewed before an application is prepared. The design must relate to appearance The features claimed must be visible in the finished article and judged by the eye. A feature that exists only because an article must perform a technical function may fall outside design protection. For example, the decorative outer appearance of a device may raise a design question, while its internal operating mechanism does not. The design must be applied to an article Design protection concerns features applied to an article through an industrial process or means. The application therefore needs to identify the article accurately. An abstract concept, without a qualifying application to an article, is not enough. Who can apply for design registration? A person claiming to be the proprietor of a new or original design may apply for registration. The applicant may be an individual or a business entity, depending on who owns the rights. Ownership should be settled before filing. If an employee, freelancer, design studio, or manufacturer created the design, the parties should check the terms under which the work was commissioned. A business should not assume that paying for a drawing or prototype resolves every ownership question. Written agreements, assignments, invoices, and project records can help establish why the applicant is entitled to file. Correct ownership details also matter later. A design may be licensed, assigned, or enforced, and uncertainty about who owns it can make those steps more difficult. What documents are required for design registration? An application generally requires the applicant’s details, the name of the article, its appropriate class, and clear representations of the design. The representations may be drawings or images showing the relevant views of the article. Where applicable, the applicant may also need to provide a statement identifying the features in which novelty is claimed. Additional documents depend on the circumstances. An applicant claiming priority from an earlier foreign application must provide the relevant priority details and documents. A startup or small entity claiming a concessional fee must support that status. If an agent files the application, an authorisation is required. The quality of the representations deserves particular attention. If one image shows an ornamental feature that disappears in another, the examiner may need clarification. Images should present the same design consistently and make the claimed appearance easy to understand. How does the design registration process work in India? Step 1: Review the design before filing The applicant should first identify the visual features that need protection. This includes deciding whether the claim concerns the overall shape, a surface pattern, ornamentation, or another aspect of appearance. At this stage, the applicant should also check whether the design has already been disclosed publicly. An initial search of similar products and registered designs helps assess potential conflicts. Although a search cannot guarantee registration, it can reveal obvious risks before the business spends time preparing and filing the application. Step 2: Identify the article and its class Designs are registered in relation to articles in particular classes. The article description and classification should match the product on which the design is applied. A vague or inaccurate description can lead to examination questions and create uncertainty about the scope of the registration. Where a business has several product variations, it should consider whether each variation needs separate protection. The answer depends on the visual differences and how the business plans to use those designs. Step 3: Prepare the representations The drawings or photographs should clearly show the design from the views necessary to understand it. Consistent front, back, side, top, or perspective views may be needed depending on the article. The applicant should decide whether colour forms part of the claimed appearance and ensure that the submitted images reflect that decision. The representations should be reviewed alongside the application details. The article name, any novelty statement, and the images should all describe the same design. Step 4: File the application An application for registration is filed in the prescribed form with the applicable official fee. The applicant must provide accurate ownership and article details and include the required representations and supporting documents. Official fees may vary by applicant category. Before filing, the applicant should verify the current fee and ensure that any claimed concession is supported by the required proof. Step 5: Respond to examination objections After filing, the application is examined for legal and procedural compliance. The examiner may raise questions about novelty, earlier disclosure, classification, the quality of the representations, or other requirements. An objection does not necessarily mean the application has failed. The applicant may be able to provide an explanation, correct a formal issue, or submit an appropriate response within the permitted time. The response should deal directly with each objection and remain consistent with the design originally filed. Step 6: Registration and publication If the application satisfies the requirements, the design is registered and a certificate is issued. The particulars of the registered design are then published. The proprietor should check the registration details, keep the certificate and filed representations safely, and record the deadline for extending protection. How long is a design registration valid? A registered design is initially protected for 10 years. The proprietor may apply for a further five years, making the maximum protection period 15 years. The extension requires the prescribed application and fee. A business should record the relevant deadline as soon as registration is granted. Although the law provides a process for seeking restoration of a lapsed design in certain circumstances, it is better to manage the extension on time than to depend on restoration. What rights does the registered proprietor receive? The registered proprietor obtains the exclusive right to apply the design to articles in the class in which it is registered during the protection period. This right may help prevent others from commercially applying or dealing in unauthorised copies or imitations covered by the law. The scope of protection is connected to the registered representations and the identified article. Registration does not give ownership of every possible design that follows a similar idea. For example, registering the specific appearance of a chair does not give the proprietor exclusive rights over all chairs with a comparable function. Careful filing helps make the boundary of the right clearer. The proprietor may also use the registration as a commercial asset. Subject to the applicable requirements, rights in a registered design can be licensed or assigned. What is piracy of a registered design? Piracy occurs when a person engages in conduct prohibited by the Designs Act in relation to a registered design. This can include unauthorised application of the design, or a fraudulent or obvious imitation of it, to articles in the registered class. Certain dealings in those articles may also be covered. If a proprietor discovers a suspected copy, the first step is to preserve evidence. Useful records may include product samples, website screenshots, dated advertisements, purchase invoices, marketplace listings, and the proprietor’s registration documents. The business can then assess whether the competing product falls within the scope of its registered design and which legal remedy is appropriate. The law provides for remedies that may include monetary relief and an injunction, subject to the circumstances of the case. A dispute can also involve a challenge to the validity of the design registration, so enforcement decisions should be based on both the registration and the design’s earlier disclosure history. Can a registered design be cancelled? Yes. A registration can be challenged on statutory grounds. These include earlier registration in India, prior publication, lack of novelty or originality, failure to meet the requirements for registration, or failure to qualify as a “design” under the Act. This is why obtaining a certificate is only part of protecting a product. Applicants should retain the material that supports their filing, including development records, ownership documents, earlier design searches, and evidence of when the design first became public. Common mistakes to avoid Revealing the product before assessing registration Businesses often publish launch images as soon as a prototype is ready. That publicity may affect novelty. The design team and marketing team should coordinate so that protection is considered before public release. Claiming technical features as a design A product may contain both a distinctive appearance and an innovative mechanism. The design application should focus on the qualifying visible features. Technical innovation needs a separate assessment. Filing inconsistent images Unclear images make it harder for the examiner to identify the design and can create disputes later about what was registered. Every submitted view should be checked for consistency before filing. Ignoring ownership documents Where multiple people contributed to a product, the applicant should verify the chain of ownership. This is particularly important when a business uses an outside designer or agency. Missing the extension deadline Registration has a limited term. The proprietor should maintain a reliable record of the registration date, certificate, and extension deadline, particularly when managing a portfolio of several designs. Conclusion Design registration helps businesses protect the appearance that makes their products distinctive. A unique shape, pattern or ornament can influence customer choice and represent substantial creative and financial investment. A strong application starts with identifying the visual features to be protected, confirming ownership, and checking whether the design has already been disclosed publicly. Clear, consistent images help define the scope of protection and make it easier to respond to questions during examination. Businesses should consider design protection before sharing product images, displaying samples or beginning sales, as early disclosure may affect registration. Once the design is registered, the proprietor should preserve its records, monitor the market for possible copying, and track the deadline for extending protection. Compliance Calendar LLP can assist businesses with design registration and related intellectual property requirements, from preparing the application to managing procedural queries. For assistance with protecting your product design in India, contact Compliance Calendar LLP at +91 9988424211. Frequently asked questions Q1. How long does design registration take in India? Ans. There is no fixed time that applies to every application. The timeline depends on the examination process and whether the Design Office raises objections. Clear representations and complete documents can help avoid delays. Q2. Can I register more than one design for the same product? Ans. Yes. A product may have different visual versions, such as distinct shapes or surface patterns. Each version should be assessed separately to determine whether it needs its own application. Q3. Can a foreign company apply for design registration in India? Ans. Yes. A foreign company can seek registration in India if it is entitled to apply for the design. It must meet the same substantive requirements, including novelty and correct ownership, and comply with the applicable filing formalities. Q4. Can I make changes to a design after it has been registered? Ans. Registration protects the design shown in the filed representations. If a later product has material visual changes, the original registration may not adequately cover that version. The revised design should be assessed for a separate application. Q5. What should I do if I find a product similar to my registered design? Ans. Preserve evidence of the product, including dated screenshots, advertisements, invoices or a purchased sample. Then compare it with your registered representations and confirm that the registration remains in force. Similarity alone does not establish piracy; the specific designs and articles need to be assessed before taking action. Q6. Is design registration mandatory before selling a product? Ans. No. A product can be sold without design registration. However, registration provides the specific statutory rights available for a registered design. Filing before sale is often advisable because public disclosure may affect eligibility. Q7. Can a logo be registered as a design? Ans. A logo used to identify a business or its goods is generally considered under trademark law. A decorative feature applied to a qualifying article may require a separate design assessment. The correct approach depends on the feature and how it is used. Q8. Can I register a design after posting it on social media? Ans. A public post may count as disclosure and affect whether the design is new. The answer depends on the facts, including what was shown and when. The disclosure history should be reviewed before filing. Q9. Does one Indian registration protect a design worldwide? Ans. No. An Indian design registration provides protection under Indian law. A business selling products in other countries should consider whether it needs protection in those markets as well. Q10. Can a product have both design and trademark protection? Ans. Potentially, yes. Design law and trademark law address different features and legal requirements. A product’s appearance may raise a design issue, while its brand name or logo may raise a trademark issue. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Copyright Acttrademark Author Info Name: Compliance Calendar LLP Qualification: Graduate Company: Compliance Calendar LLP Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 79 View full profile → More from Compliance Calendar LLP Copyright Vs Trademark in India: What Should Your Business Protect? September 29, 2026 Copyright Registration in India: Process, Documents, Benefits and 30-Day Objection Period September 28, 2026 Trademark Renewal: Procedure, Form TM-R, Fees, Deadlines and Restoration September 26, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law One-Year Auditor Re-Appointment Leads to ₹15 Lakh Compounding Fee: MCA September 29, 2026 Deposits under Companies Act, 2013: Meaning, Exclusions, DPT-3 & Shareholder Loans September 29, 2026 NCLAT Reduces Restoration Cost From Rs.10 Lakh to Rs.5 Lakh for Struck-Off Company September 29, 2026 IBC to Companies Act appeal conversion does not reset limitation: NCLAT September 29, 2026 MSME Protection Does Not Extinguish Established IBC Debt & Default: NCLT Mumbai September 29, 2026 Parliament Competent to Apply BOCW Cess Act to J&K: Jammu & Kashmir HC September 29, 2026