Summary: Recovery of an erroneous GST refund raises an important legal question regarding whether the Department must first challenge the original refund sanction order through departmental review and appeal under Section 107 or whether it can independently initiate recovery proceedings under Sections 73, 74 or 74A. The issue is particularly significant where the refund was sanctioned through a speaking order in Form GST RFD-06 after examination of the taxpayer’s claim. Section 107 provides a mechanism for reviewing and challenging an order considered legally improper, whereas Sections 73, 74 and 74A expressly deal with tax erroneously refunded. The relationship between these provisions has generated differing judicial interpretations, especially where the Department seeks to reopen matters already adjudicated in the original refund proceedings. The statutory framework also raises questions concerning limitation, interest under Section 50, penalty and the consequences of a successful departmental appeal. Section 107(11) links appellate recovery to the opportunity of hearing and applicable limitation requirements under the demand provisions. Where an erroneous refund involves unutilised input tax credit, Rule 86(4B) provides a mechanism for re-credit to the electronic credit ledger after repayment, subject to prescribed conditions. Earlier Central Excise decisions and subsequent GST judgments illustrate the competing approaches to recovery without first setting aside an adjudicated refund order. The appropriate legal route therefore depends on the nature of the alleged error, whether the refund order was adjudicated, the grounds of recovery and the applicable statutory time limits. Table of Contents▸ 1. Introduction 2. Legal Framework for Recovery of Erroneous Refunds 3. Departmental Review and Appeal under Section 107 4. What Happens When the Department Wins the Appeal? 5. Recovery of Erroneous Refund under Sections 73, 74 and 74A 6. Re-credit of ITC under Rule 86(4B) after Repayment 7. The Earlier Legal Position and Why It Matters 8. Important GST Court and Tribunal Decisions 9. When Can the Department Use the Demand Route? 10. How Section 107 Works with Sections 73, 74 and 74A 11. Practical Guidance for Taxpayers and Practitioners 12. Final Takeaways 13. Cases and Legal References 14. Key Points at a Glance Show all 14 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 1. Introduction Recovery of an erroneous GST refund raises an important legal question: should the Department first review the refund order under Section 107, or can it directly recover the amount under Sections 73, 74 or 74A? The issue becomes particularly relevant where the refund has already been examined and sanctioned through a speaking order in Form GST RFD-06. The choice of the recovery route has significant implications because the two mechanisms operate with different procedures and time limits. This article examines the statutory framework, the judicial decisions on the issue, the consequences of successful recovery proceedings, and the circumstances in which the demand route may be available. It also considers interest, penalty and re-credit of ITC under Rule 86(4B) following repayment of an erroneous refund. 2. Legal Framework for Recovery of Erroneous Refunds The GST law provides two possible mechanisms for dealing with an erroneous refund. The first is departmental review under Section 107(2), followed by an appeal under Section 107(3) against the refund order. The second is recovery of tax erroneously refunded through Sections 73, 74 or 74A, depending on the relevant period and circumstances. The refund itself is governed by Section 54 read with Rule 92, while Section 50 provides for interest on an erroneous refund. In cases involving repayment of an erroneous refund of unutilised ITC, Rule 86(4B) provides a mechanism for re-credit of the corresponding amount to the electronic credit ledger, subject to the prescribed conditions. The central issue is therefore how these provisions operate together and which recovery mechanism is appropriate in a particular case. 3. Departmental Review and Appeal under Section 107 Where the Department believes that a refund order is not legal or proper, it can examine the order under Section 107(2). If the Commissioner decides that the order requires challenge, the authorised officer is directed to file an appeal before the Appellate Authority under Section 107(3). The appeal is filed in Form GST APL-03, and the review and appeal process is generally subject to the prescribed six-month time limit, with a further one-month extension where sufficient cause is shown. This route directly challenges the refund order itself. If the Appellate Authority finds that the refund was wrongly sanctioned, it may modify or set aside the order, subject to the requirements of Section 107(11). Importantly, where recovery of the refunded amount is proposed, the taxpayer must be given an opportunity to show cause and the payment order must be passed within the applicable limitation period under Sections 73, 74 or 74A. 4. What Happens When the Department Wins the Appeal? If the Department succeeds in its appeal and the refund order is set aside or modified, the refunded amount can be ordered to be paid back, but the requirements of Section 107(11) must be followed. The taxpayer must be given an opportunity to show cause against the proposed recovery, and the order requiring payment must be passed within the applicable time limit under Sections 73, 74 or 74A. Once the amount becomes payable, interest under Section 50 may also arise. However, the question of when such interest should start is open to debate, particularly where the refund was held under a valid order until it was set aside by the Appellate Authority. The question of penalty is also different, as the appellate provisions specifically deal with recovery of the tax amount and do not clearly provide for imposing a fresh penalty in such proceedings. 5. Recovery of Erroneous Refund under Sections 73, 74 and 74A Sections 73, 74 and 74A provide a separate mechanism for recovery where tax has been erroneously refunded. Section 73 applies to cases not involving fraud, wilful misstatement or suppression of facts, while Section 74 applies to such cases for periods up to FY 2023-24. From FY 2024-25 onwards, Section 74A covers both situations under a common provision. Under this route, the Department issues a show cause notice setting out the basis and computation of the erroneous refund, followed by adjudication. The applicable provision also determines the limitation period, interest and penalty. The refund must actually have been made and must have exceeded the amount legally available to the taxpayer. The demand route therefore operates through the normal adjudication process rather than directly altering the original refund order. 6. Re-credit of ITC under Rule 86(4B) after Repayment Where an erroneous refund relates to unutilised ITC, repayment of the refund in cash would otherwise result in the taxpayer losing both the cash paid back and the original credit. Rule 86(4B) addresses this issue by allowing re-credit of the equivalent amount to the electronic credit ledger through Form GST PMT-03A, subject to the prescribed conditions. To claim the re-credit, the taxpayer must repay the erroneous refund through DRC-03 from the electronic cash ledger, along with applicable interest and penalty, and submit the prescribed request to the proper officer. Once the conditions are satisfied, the principal amount is re-credited to the electronic credit ledger; however, the interest and penalty paid are not re-credited. 7. The Earlier Legal Position and Why It Matters Before GST, the Central Excise law also dealt with the recovery of refunds that were wrongly granted. Decisions such as Flock (India) and Eveready Industries emphasised that an order passed after adjudication cannot simply be ignored or reopened through another proceeding. Where a refund order had been passed in accordance with law, the Department was required to follow the appropriate statutory mechanism for challenging that order. The Supreme Court’s decisions in Asian Paints and Morarjee Gokuldas further examined the relationship between review proceedings and recovery provisions under the Central Excise framework. These decisions are relevant to the GST debate because they recognise that a refund order passed after adjudication is not merely an administrative act. However, the GST law has its own provisions under Sections 107, 73, 74 and 74A, and therefore the earlier decisions must be considered in the context of the present statutory scheme. 8. Important GST Court and Tribunal Decisions The GST judicial position on recovery of erroneous refunds is not yet uniform. Different courts and the GST Appellate Tribunal have taken different views depending on the facts. The Orissa High Court has taken both approaches in different cases, while the Gujarat High Court in Patanjali Foods and the Orissa High Court in Auroglobal Comtrade have provided support to the taxpayer where an adjudicated refund order was sought to be reopened through a demand notice. On the other hand, the GSTAT, Raipur in Hindalco Industries held that Section 73 is not automatically barred merely because the Department did not invoke Section 107(2) or Section 108. The Madras High Court has also considered the issue in recent proceedings, but the question remains under examination. Thus, the present judicial position depends heavily on the nature of the refund, whether it was adjudicated, the grounds on which recovery is proposed, and whether the refund order has already been tested in appeal. 9. When Can the Department Use the Demand Route? The demand route under Sections 73, 74 and 74A cannot be viewed in isolation. Its validity depends on the nature of the alleged error and what has happened to the original refund order. Where the refund was already examined through a speaking order and the Department is merely taking a different view on the same facts, documents and legal position, there is a stronger argument that the Department should have used the review mechanism under Section 107. However, the demand route may have greater scope where the refund resulted from a clear statutory miscalculation, a subsequently discovered fact, or fraud, wilful misstatement or suppression of facts. It is also more readily available where the refund was granted without an adjudicated order. Therefore, the key questions are whether the refund order was adjudicated, whether it has already been tested in appeal, and what exactly is the basis for treating the refund as erroneous. 10. How Section 107 Works with Sections 73, 74 and 74A Sections 107 and 73/74/74A serve different but connected purposes. Section 107 provides the mechanism for challenging the legality or propriety of a refund order through departmental review and appeal. On the other hand, Sections 73, 74 and 74A provide the mechanism for determining and recovering tax that has been erroneously refunded. The GST law therefore does not make either provision completely redundant. This relationship is also reflected in Section 107(11). Where the Appellate Authority finds that tax has been erroneously refunded, it can require payment only after giving the taxpayer an opportunity to show cause and within the applicable limitation period under the demand provisions. Thus, the review and demand mechanisms have to be read together, with the appropriate route depending on the nature of the error and the circumstances in which the refund was granted. 11. Practical Guidance for Taxpayers and Practitioners In cases involving recovery of an erroneous refund, the taxpayer should first examine how the original refund was sanctioned and whether the Department has already challenged that order. A speaking RFD-06 order, the grounds mentioned in the notice, the calculation of the alleged excess refund and the applicable limitation period should be carefully checked. Where the Department is effectively taking a different view on the same facts and documents, the taxpayer may question whether the demand proceedings are being used as a substitute for the review mechanism under Section 107. The taxpayer should also verify the basis of the alleged erroneous refund, interest and penalty, and ensure that the notice contains sufficient details and computation to enable an effective reply. If the refund relates to unutilised ITC and is repaid through DRC-03, the taxpayer should examine eligibility for re-credit under Rule 86(4B). A proper record of the RFD-06 order, refund computation, DRC-03, interest payment and PMT-03A proceedings should be maintained throughout the process. 12. Final Takeaways The recovery of an erroneous GST refund depends largely on the nature of the error and the status of the original refund order. Where the Department seeks to challenge the correctness of an adjudicated refund order on the same facts and documents, the review mechanism under Section 107 becomes particularly important. At the same time, Sections 73, 74 and 74A continue to provide an independent mechanism for cases falling within their scope, including situations involving statutory miscalculation, newly discovered facts or fraud. The GST framework therefore does not make one route completely redundant. The proper approach is to examine the refund order, the nature of the alleged error, the applicable limitation period and the stage at which the Department is seeking recovery. The judicial position is still developing, and the outcome in a particular case will depend significantly on its facts and the grounds on which the Department seeks to recover the refund. 13. Cases and Legal References This article draws upon the relevant statutory provisions, judicial decisions and departmental instructions dealing with erroneous refunds under GST. The authorities discussed include decisions of the Supreme Court, various High Courts and the GST Appellate Tribunal, along with provisions of the CGST/TNGST Acts, relevant Rules and CBIC instructions and circulars. The important decisions referred to in the article include Flock (India), Eveready Industries, Morarjee Gokuldas, Ganesh Ores, AWL Agri Business, Auroglobal Comtrade, Patanjali Foods, Hindalco Industries and Razack Trading Company. These authorities have been considered to understand the relationship between the review mechanism and the demand provisions and to explain the present judicial position on recovery of erroneous refunds. 14. Key Points at a Glance The article highlights the key aspects of recovery of erroneous refunds under GST through a simple visual presentation. The infographics bring together the two recovery routes, the applicable time limits, the role of Section 107, Sections 73, 74 and 74A, the consequences of successful recovery proceedings, and the re-credit mechanism under Rule 86(4B). They are intended to provide a quick understanding of the main legal issues discussed in the article. The visual summary also helps readers understand the practical decision points: whether the refund was adjudicated, whether it was challenged in appeal, what kind of error is alleged, and whether the Department is attempting to reopen an issue already decided. These points form the practical framework for understanding when the review route or the demand route may be relevant. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under CGSTGoods And Services TaxGSTGST Refund Author Info Name: CA. Shafaly Girdharwal Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Ashva Legal Location: Faridabad, Haryana Articles Published: 52 View full profile → More from CA. Shafaly Girdharwal Jurisdiction of GST Authorities to Detain Goods in Transit Under Section 129 September 28, 2026 What is the Effect of Dismissal of an SLP In Limine? July 8, 2026 Section 122 of CGST Act: Multiple Penalties, Vicarious Liability & Expanding Reach of Section 122(1A) June 18, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Return Filed Before 30 November 2021 Entitles Taxpayer to ITC: Kerala HC October 8, 2026 GST Refund Under Rule 89 Available to Both SEZ Units and Suppliers: Madras HC October 8, 2026 Section 16(5) Protects ITC Claimed Through Returns Filed Before Cut-Off: Kerala HC October 8, 2026 Jammu & Kashmir HC Bars GST on Taxi Stand Land Rentals Before 8 July 2017 October 8, 2026 Pregnancy Prevented GST Hearing; Ex-Parte Order Set Aside: Karnataka HC October 8, 2026 KVAT Recovery Must Be Recalled If Tax Payment Challans Verified: Karnataka HC October 8, 2026