Summary: POSH has clearly moved from being an HR issue to being a Boardroom, governance and enterprise-risk issue, with a direct statutory bridge between the POSH framework, employer accountability, Board reporting, governance disclosures and reputational risk. The Companies Act, 2013, through the 2018 amendment to the Companies (Accounts) Rules and Section 134(3)(q), requires disclosure in the Board’s Report of POSH complaints received, resolved and pending beyond 90 days, bringing the matter directly into Board-level reporting. Section 26 of the POSH Act imposes penalties on the employer for non-compliance, while SEBI’s BRSR framework places POSH disclosure under Principle 5 on Human Rights for listed companies. Secretarial Audit under Section 204 and the Supreme Court’s ruling in Aureliano Fernandes v. State of Goa (2023) further reinforce institutional compliance and procedural fairness. POSH therefore presents governance, reputational, investor, ESG, insurance, vendor-due-diligence and regulatory risks, particularly where workplace-safety systems are weak or inaccessible. Mature organisations are responding through regular Board dashboards, scrutiny of External IC Member independence, reconciliation of Companies Act, BRSR and Internal Committee data, leadership accountability and proactive POSH audits. The Board’s role is not to inquire into every complaint, but to ensure that the organisation has a credible system to prevent, receive, investigate, redress and learn from workplace harassment. Table of Contents▸ The Legal Architecture That Moved POSH Off the HR Desk Why This Is a Governance Risk, Not a Checkbox Reputational exposure What Leading Boards Are Actually Doing The Boardroom Test Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); The Legal Architecture That Moved POSH Off the HR Desk Four legal developments, taken together, explain why POSH now sits on a Board’s agenda rather than an HR manager’s task list. The Companies Act, 2013. Since the 2018 amendment to the Companies (Accounts) Rules, Section 134(3)(q) requires every company’s Board’s Report to disclose the number of POSH complaints received, resolved, and pending beyond 90 days. This is the pivotal shift: the disclosure is no longer an HR document; it is a statement the Board itself signs. TaxGuru has also reported on the statutory disclosure requirements relating to POSH complaints and Internal Committee compliance in the Board’s Report. Disclosure Requirements by Companies for Sexual Harassment Complaints The POSH Act’s own penalty structure. Section 26 penalises the employer — the company — for non-compliance, with escalating consequences including cancellation or non-renewal of business licences and registrations on repeat default. For any regulated or listed entity, that risk alone justifies board-level ownership. Mandatory POSH Compliances & Penalties SEBI’s BRSR framework. For listed companies, POSH disclosure sits under BRSR Principle 5 (Human Rights), mandatory for the top 1,000 companies by market capitalisation, and independently assured for the top 500 in FY 2025-26, extending to the full top 1,000 by FY 2026-27. This is no longer a self-reported HR figure — it is a number an external assurance provider now tests. TaxGuru’s material on POSH disclosures also records the BRSR Principle 5 reporting requirement for listed companies. POSH Disclosure Requirements Secretarial Audit. Under Section 204 of the Companies Act, POSH compliance is a standard checkpoint in the Secretarial Audit Report (Form MR-3). A qualified or adverse remark here goes directly to the Board and shareholders — not to a departmental file. Layered on top of all this, the Supreme Court’s ruling in Aureliano Fernandes v. State of Goa (2023) directed organisations toward periodic compliance audits and stricter procedural fairness in Internal Committee inquiries — a clear judicial signal that courts, too, now expect institutional, board-visible compliance rather than a policy that exists only on paper. Aureliano Fernandes Vs State of Goa – Supreme Court Directions Why This Is a Governance Risk, Not a Checkbox The law explains how POSH reached the boardroom. Industry experience explains why it stayed there. Reputational exposure Reputational exposure today is immediate — a mishandled complaint can surface publicly within hours, and several high-profile leadership exits across Indian corporates and startups in recent years have been triggered by exactly this kind of failure. Institutional investors and proxy advisory firms increasingly factor POSH disclosure quality into director re-election and governance scoring. D&O insurance is being tested by shareholder and regulatory action rooted in workplace-safety governance failures. And in export-oriented sectors — IT/ITES, manufacturing with global clients — weak POSH metrics now affect ESG ratings, vendor due diligence, and in some cases contract eligibility. A subtler shift is worth flagging for any board still treating this as a box-ticking exercise: a “zero complaints” figure is no longer read as reassuring. From 2026, ESG auditors and BRSR Core assessors are more likely to treat consistently zero complaints as a red flag than as good news — a signal of under-reporting or an inaccessible Internal Committee, rather than a genuinely harassment-free workplace. What Leading Boards Are Actually Doing Practice among more mature organisations has moved well ahead of the bare statutory minimum: Regular dashboards, not annual surprises. The Board or a designated committee reviews POSH data quarterly or half-yearly, so the annual Board’s Report disclosure becomes the output of ongoing monitoring rather than a year-end scramble. Scrutiny of External IC Member independence. BRSR Core assessors now treat a compromised External Member — one who is a retained consultant, panel lawyer, or vendor to the company — as a structural governance weakness that can undermine the IC’s findings altogether. Companies are responding by formalising genuinely independent external appointments. Cross-filing reconciliation. The Companies Act Board’s Report figures, the BRSR Principle 5 figures, and the internal IC register are increasingly required to match exactly, with inconsistency itself treated as a control weakness. Leadership accountability. At more progressive organisations, workplace-safety outcomes are beginning to feature in leadership scorecards, rather than sitting solely within HR’s KPIs. Proactive, pre-emptive audits. Rather than waiting for the statutory Secretarial Audit or BRSR assurance cycle to surface gaps, boards are commissioning independent POSH compliance reviews on their own initiative. Annual POSH Audit. The National Commission for Women has made these mandatory in its recently issued POSH Advisory for assessing the gaps in the legal compliance. According to Vijaya Rahatkar, Chairperson of NCW-“ Effective implementation of POSH is not merely a legal obligation but a collective responsibility towards ensuring women’s empowerment and participation in nation-building”. TaxGuru has separately covered the NCW 2026 Advisory on POSH Compliance, Audits and Accountability. The Boardroom Test For any board still deciding how much attention this deserves, three questions cut to the heart of it: Is our Internal Committee properly constituted and genuinely independent? Do our Companies Act, BRSR, and internal figures reconcile with each other? And are we reading “zero complaints” as reassurance — or as a question we haven’t yet asked? What percentage of Employees have been sensitised? What are the risks hotspots? Have the statutory reporting obligations fulfilled? That last question, more than any statutory checklist, is what separates a board that treats POSH as genuine governance from one still filing it away as HR paperwork. Therefore, I would summarise the Board’s responsibility in one sentence: “The Board need not inquire into every POSH complaint, but it must ensure that the organisation has a credible system to prevent, receive, investigate, redress and learn from workplace harassment.” And perhaps the strongest closing line for your article/speech would be: “POSH is not a Boardroom issue because every Board must know who complained against whom. POSH is a Boardroom issue because every Board must know whether its organisation is safe, respectful, accountable and capable of responding when dignity at work is threatened.” Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Posh Act 2013 Author Info Name: Shukla Bansal Qualification: CS Company: Founder of Shukla Bansal& Co, Company Secretaries Location: Ghāziābād, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 3 View full profile → More from Shukla Bansal Not Every Concern Begins with a Complaint- IC’s Role Beyond Written Complaint September 8, 2026 Adapting to Change: How Company Secretaries Are Redefining Their Role September 4, 2025 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Mere Possession of Books Cannot Justify Preventive Detention: J&K&L High Court September 13, 2026 NCLT Mumbai Admits Section 9 CIRP Petition for Unpaid Operational Debt September 13, 2026 NCLAT Holds It Cannot Condone Delay Beyond 45 Days under IBC September 13, 2026 Supreme Court Refers Section 47-A Stamp Duty Undervaluation Test to Larger Bench September 13, 2026 Allahabad HC Lambasts Misuse of UP Control of Goonda Act, 1970 September 13, 2026 WhatsApp Chats, Lab Report Fail to Prove Pre-Existing Dispute: NCLT Admits CIRP September 12, 2026