Constructing a Risk- and Event-Based POSH Compliance Calendar Summary: The POSH framework is often managed through annual checklists and periodic initiatives, but several important obligations arise from legal or organisational events rather than fixed calendar dates. Constitution or reconstitution of the Internal Committee, expiry of a member’s tenure, receipt of a complaint, commencement or completion of an inquiry, requests for interim relief, receipt of an inquiry report, appeals and regulatory developments can each activate distinct compliance obligations. This article constructs a risk- and event-based POSH compliance calendar by mapping these legal triggers to the corresponding actions and risk levels. It distinguishes continuous, periodic, event-triggered, complaint-triggered and regulatory-triggered obligations and sets out a structured calendar covering constitution and composition of the Internal Committee, tenure, vacancies, workplace disclosures, awareness, complaints, conciliation, inquiry, interim relief, findings, implementation, confidentiality, appeals, annual reporting and government requests or identified compliance failures. The article further proposes that risk should be attached to the compliance action rather than merely to the statutory provision, recognising that procedural deficiencies, delayed inquiries and failures of natural justice may carry different levels of legal risk. It also distinguishes statutory events, internal control events and regulatory or judicial events. The proposed model is intended to reduce false compliance, facilitate proportionate escalation and ensure that POSH compliance remains operational rather than merely documentary. The conclusion emphasises that POSH compliance is not a once-a-year exercise but a continuing legal-risk management process capable of responding to events as they occur. Table of Contents▸ Brief Introduction From a Date-Based Calendar to an Event-Based Legal Calendar The Constructed POSH Compliance Calendar Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Brief Compliance with the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013[1] is frequently approached through annual checklists and periodic initiative. Such approaches, do not fully reflect the structure of the statute. The POSH framework contains obligations that are not activated by a fixed calendar date but by legal or organisational events. In the form of constitution or reconstitution of the IC, expiry of a member’s tenure, receipt of a complaint and commencement or completion of an inquiry. It also extends to request for interim relief, receipt of the inquiry report, and the occurrence of reporting or regulatory events. This article proposes and constructs a risk- and event-based POSH compliance calendar by mapping the legal events. These legal events activate statutory obligations and assigning a corresponding risk level to each compliance action. The calendar therefore moves beyond a date-based checklist and operates as a legal-risk management instrument. It distinguishes statutory deadlines from internally prescribed control points and separates continuous, event-triggered obligations. The resulting model is intended to translate the POSH Act into an operational compliance architecture. Introduction A compliance calendar ordinarily performs a simple function of prescribing an organisation what must be done and when. That model works effectively and reasonably well where legislation prescribes recurring dates monthly returns, quarterly filings or annual disclosures. The POSH framework presents a different problem. The POSH Act does contain recurring obligations, including awareness initiatives and annual reporting. Despite several of its most consequential obligations arise only when a particular event occurs. Likewise, appointment of an Internal Committee member activates questions of constitution and tenure. A vacancy may require reconstitution. A complaint activates a sequence of procedural obligations. Completion of an inquiry triggers the duty to communicate findings. Receipt of the findings activates the employer’s obligation to act. An appeal creates another legally significant period. The law therefore operates according to[2] events occurring within the workplace. The Supreme Court’s jurisprudence reinforces this event-sensitive character of POSH compliance. In Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan, the Court treated prevention and redressal of workplace sexual harassment as an institutional responsibility.[3] Connecting it with equality, dignity and the right to work. Medha Kotwal Lele v. Union of India subsequently highlighted the persistent gap between formal adoption of the Vishaka framework and its actual implementation. The Supreme Court’s later implementation jurisprudence demonstrates that POSH compliance must remain operational rather than merely documentary.[4]Moreover recently, Aureliano Fernandes v. State of Goa exposed how procedural deficiencies in an IC inquiry can undermine the legitimacy of the redressal mechanism itself.[5] Wherein the Court implementation directions consequently emphasised constitution, training, orientation, awareness and procedural competence of Internal Committee. This article therefore does not attempt to provide another generic POSH checklist. Rather it constructs a compliance calendar from the legal architecture of the POSH framework itself. From a Date-Based Calendar to an Event-Based Legal Calendar Under the POSH framework, the date is often only the point at which an organisation chooses to operationalise an obligation. The legal trigger may lie elsewhere. Consequently, a POSH calendar must answer two different questions: 1. What event activates the obligation? 2. Once activated, what action must follow and within what period? This produces five principal categories of events: Event category Meaning POSH obligation Continuous Obligation exists throughout the compliance cycle. Confidentiality, functioning complaint mechanism. Periodic Obligation recurs at prescribed or internally determined intervals. Awareness, orientation, compliance review. Event-triggered Organisational event activates compliance. IC constitution, vacancy, tenure expiry. Complaint-triggered Complaint activates statutory procedure. Inquiry, interim relief, findings. Regulatory-triggered External legal/regulatory development requires review. Judicial direction, government communication, inspection. The Constructed POSH Compliance Calendar The following calendar constitutes the principal output of this article. Provision When does the obligation arise? What must be done? When must it be done? What should happen if the action is missed or approaching? S.4(1) When the POSH Act becomes applicable to an establishment or relevant workplace. The employer must constitute an Internal Committee through a written order. Immediately upon applicability. Review; constitution must not remain pending. S.4(2) Appointment or change in IC membership Verify that the Presiding Officer, employee members, external member and required gender composition. Also satisfy s. 4. At constitution and after every membership change. Reconstitute the Committee where its composition becomes legally defective. S.4(3) Appointment of IC member. Record and monitor tenure. Tenure cannot exceed 3 years. Create a pre-expiry review and initiate reconstitution where necessary. S.4(5) Removal, resignation, disqualification or vacancy. Reconstitute or nominate replacement as required. Event-triggered Escalate vacancy immediately. S.19(b) Constitution/ change in IC Display the required information concerning the IC and penal consequences at the workplace. Continuously verify after changes. Conduct workplace-level verification and rectify deficiencies. S.19(c) Periodic compliance cycle Conduct awareness programmes and IC orientation Regular intervals Review completion and schedule remedial program where necessary. Rules, 2013 Policy/IC change and periodic cycle Disseminate the policy and communicate the names/contact details of IC members. After every relevant change and as part of continuing compliance. Verify that employees have access to current information. S.9 Receipt of complaint Register complaint and activate statutory process Immediately upon receipt Restricted case tracking and immediate IC attention. S.9 Incident/last incident Determine whether the complaint falls within the statutory limitation period and consider any legally permissible extension. Ordinarily three months; extension where legally permissible IC must specifically address limitation where relevant. S.10 Request for conciliation. Consider conciliation only were requested by aggrieved woman. Event-triggered IC/legal oversight. No monetary settlement as the basis of conciliation. S.11 When an inquiry begins commences. Conduct inquiry according to prescribed procedure. Within 90 days Statutory clock + internal alerts. Rule 7 When the complaint is supplied to the respondent. Supply complaint copies and manage response of the respondent. Within the periods prescribed under Rule 7. IC procedural checklist and documentary verification. S.12 When the aggrieved woman makes a written request for interim relief. Consider appropriate interim measures permitted under s. 12. Event-triggered Immediate IC review S.13(1) When the inquiry is completed. Prepare the inquiry findings and recommendations and communicate them as required. Within 10 days of completion. Immediate escalation. S.13(4) When the employer receives the inquiry report. Implement recommendations Within 60 days Escalation to employer until implementation is completed. S.16–17 When a complaint or inquiry is pending. Protect the confidentiality of the complaint, identities, proceedings, recommendations and action taken. Continuous throughout proceedings Restricted Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Posh Act 2013 Author Info Name: Divyanshu Suman Qualification: Student - Others Location: Ahmedabad, Gujarat Articles Published: 3 View full profile → More from Divyanshu Suman Confidentiality Clauses as Non-Compete: Limits of Post-Employment Restraints September 10, 2026 Employee Transfer Risks in Business Transfers: Section 73 and BTA Liabilities September 10, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law IRDAI Imposes Rs. 1 Crore Penalty on IndusInd Bank for Corporate Agent Regulatory Violations September 11, 2026 IRDAI Order: ₹1 Crore Penalty on Canara HSBC Life Insurance for Mis-selling to 88-Year-Old September 11, 2026 Santoor Advertisement Depicting Dettol Does Not Disparage Dettol: Delhi HC September 11, 2026 Belated Writ Petition Challenging AFT Order Dismissed by Kerala High Court September 11, 2026 Suo Motu Revision Cannot Enhance Sentence in Accused Appeal: SC September 11, 2026 CCPA Penalises Weblink.In ₹10 Lakh for Misleading Explosive Listings on ExportersIndia September 10, 2026