Summary: Presumptive taxation under Section 44AD of the Income Tax Act, 1961 provides a simplified method for eligible small businesses to calculate taxable income by applying a prescribed percentage to turnover or gross receipts instead of calculating actual profits after individual expenses. The scheme is intended to reduce the accounting and compliance burden for small traders, retailers, entrepreneurs and other eligible businesses. Section 44AD permits eligible taxpayers to declare income at the prescribed presumptive rate, with the rate generally being 8% for cash and other non-digital receipts and 6% for eligible digital or banking-channel receipts. The article explains the meaning and concept of presumptive taxation, the purpose and objectives of Section 44AD, eligibility of resident individuals, resident HUFs and resident partnership firms, and the exclusion of LLPs, companies, specified professionals, and commission or brokerage businesses. It also discusses the turnover limits, including the higher limit where cash receipts do not exceed the specified percentage, calculation of presumptive income, treatment of business expenses and the circumstances in which businesses may consider regular taxation more beneficial. The article further explains the practical implications of the scheme and concludes that businesses should evaluate turnover, actual profit margins, expenses, business structure and future growth plans before opting for presumptive taxation. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Meaning and Concept of Presumptive Taxation What is Section 44AD of the Income Tax Act? Purpose and Objectives of Section 44AD Simplifying Tax Compliance for Small Businesses Reducing Accounting and Compliance Costs Encouraging Tax Filing Among Small Businesses Promoting Digital Transactions Eligibility Criteria for Section 44AD Eligible Taxpayers Under Section 44AD Resident Individual Resident Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) Resident Partnership Firms Businesses Covered Under Section 44AD Turnover Limit Under Section 44AD Businesses and Persons Not Eligible Under Section 44AD Professionals Covered Under Section 44AA Commission and Brokerage Businesses Companies and LLPs Income Calculation Under Section 44AD Calculation at 8% Presumptive Rate Treatment of Expenses Under Section 44AD Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Q1. What is Section 44AD of the Income Tax Act? Q2. Who can opt for Section 44AD? Q3. Can companies opt for Section 44AD? Q4. Can LLPs claim benefits under Section 44AD? Q5. What is the turnover limit under Section 44AD? Q6. What is the presumptive income rate under Section 44AD? Q7. Can a taxpayer declare lower income under Section 44AD? Q8. Are business expenses deductible under Section 44AD? Q9. Is maintaining books of accounts mandatory under Section 44AD? Q10. Is tax audit required under Section 44AD? Show all 34 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Presumptive Taxation under Section 44AD of the Income Tax Act, 1961 provides a simplified method for small businesses to calculate taxable income. Under the normal taxation system, businesses are required to maintain detailed books of accounts, record expenses, calculate actual profits, and maintain supporting documents. However, for small traders, retailers, and entrepreneurs, maintaining complete accounting records can be challenging and costly. To reduce this compliance burden, the presumptive taxation scheme allows eligible businesses to calculate income by applying a fixed percentage of their turnover or gross receipts. Section 44AD allows eligible small businesses to declare a prescribed percentage of turnover as taxable income without calculating actual profits after deducting individual expenses. The scheme eliminates the need to justify every business expense separately, as the law assumes that the prescribed income percentage represents the profit after considering all costs. This provision simplifies tax compliance, saves time, and encourages small businesses to follow income tax regulations more efficiently. Meaning and Concept of Presumptive Taxation Presumptive taxation refers to a system where income is calculated on an estimated basis rather than based on actual profit calculations. Normally, a business calculates taxable income by following the formula: Total Business Income – Allowable Business Expenses = Taxable Profit Under this method, businesses need to maintain detailed records of every income and expense transaction. They must preserve invoices, bills, payment records, purchase documents, and other supporting evidence. However, under presumptive taxation, the Income Tax Act provides a simplified approach. Instead of checking the actual profit earned by the business, the law presumes that a specific percentage of turnover represents the business income. This means that taxpayers are not required to calculate actual profit separately. The government has already determined an estimated profit percentage based on the nature and size of the business. The presumptive taxation scheme is especially beneficial for small businesses where: Business transactions are straightforward. Profit margins are reasonably stable. Maintaining detailed accounts is costly. The owner personally manages business operations. However, every business should evaluate whether this scheme is suitable because businesses with lower profit margins or higher expenses may find regular taxation more beneficial. What is Section 44AD of the Income Tax Act? Section 44AD is a special provision under the Income Tax Act that provides a simplified method for calculating business income for small taxpayers. It allows eligible businesses to declare their income at a fixed percentage of their turnover or gross receipts. The taxpayer does not need to calculate the actual profit earned after deducting expenses. The provision works on the principle that a certain percentage of turnover represents the net profit of the business. For example, if a business has turnover of ₹75 lakh and the applicable presumptive rate is 8%, the taxable business income will be considered as: ₹75 lakh × 8% = ₹6 lakh The taxpayer will declare ₹6 lakh as business income under Section 44AD. The actual profit of the business may be higher or lower than this amount, but for income tax purposes, the presumptive income will be calculated according to the prescribed percentage. This provision provides certainty and reduces disputes between taxpayers and tax authorities regarding expense claims and profit calculations. See TaxGuru’s Presumptive Taxation Scheme under Section 44AD for further discussion of the provision. Purpose and Objectives of Section 44AD The introduction of Section 44AD was aimed at simplifying taxation for small businesses and improving tax compliance among small entrepreneurs. Many small businesses operate without sophisticated accounting systems. Requiring them to maintain detailed financial records can create unnecessary difficulties and increase compliance costs. The major objectives of Section 44AD include: Simplifying Tax Compliance for Small Businesses The primary objective of Section 44AD is to make income tax compliance easier for small business owners. Instead of maintaining complex accounts and calculating actual profits, businesses can directly calculate income based on turnover. This allows entrepreneurs to focus more on their business activities rather than spending excessive time managing accounting formalities. Reducing Accounting and Compliance Costs Maintaining detailed books of accounts often requires professional assistance from accountants or tax professionals. For small businesses, these costs can become a financial burden. Section 44AD reduces this requirement by providing a simple income calculation mechanism, thereby lowering compliance expenses. Encouraging Tax Filing Among Small Businesses Many small businesses avoid formal tax compliance due to the complexity involved in maintaining accounts and filing returns. By introducing presumptive taxation, the government encourages more small entrepreneurs to enter the formal tax system and file their income tax returns regularly. Promoting Digital Transactions The lower presumptive tax rate available for digital receipts encourages businesses to adopt online payment methods and reduce dependence on cash transactions. This promotes transparency and helps create a more organised business environment. Eligibility Criteria for Section 44AD Section 44AD is not available to every taxpayer. The Income Tax Act specifies certain conditions regarding the type of taxpayer, residential status, and nature of business. Only taxpayers who satisfy these conditions can claim benefits under this scheme. Eligible Taxpayers Under Section 44AD Resident Individual A resident individual carrying on an eligible business can opt for Section 44AD. This provision is commonly used by small entrepreneurs, shopkeepers, retailers, and traders who operate individual businesses. For example, a person running a grocery store, clothing shop, mobile accessories shop, or hardware store may choose Section 44AD if the prescribed conditions are satisfied. Such individuals can reduce their accounting burden and calculate income using the presumptive method. Resident Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) A resident Hindu Undivided Family engaged in an eligible business activity can also opt for Section 44AD. Many family-owned businesses operate through HUF structures. For such taxpayers, presumptive taxation provides a simplified method of reporting business income. Resident Partnership Firms A resident partnership firm can also claim benefits under Section 44AD if it carries on an eligible business. However, Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs) are not eligible for this scheme. The exclusion of LLPs is because LLPs operate under a separate legal structure and have different compliance requirements. Businesses Covered Under Section 44AD Section 44AD mainly applies to small businesses engaged in trading, manufacturing, or other eligible business activities. Examples include: Retail shops Wholesale trading businesses Small manufacturing units Local business establishments Small commercial enterprises For instance, a retailer purchasing goods from suppliers and selling them to customers may generally use Section 44AD if turnover and other conditions are satisfied. Similarly, a small manufacturer producing goods on a limited scale may also consider this scheme. The scheme is designed for businesses where accounting requirements are relatively simple and transactions are not highly complex. Turnover Limit Under Section 44AD Turnover is one of the most important factors for determining eligibility under Section 44AD. The scheme is intended for small businesses and therefore applies only when turnover remains within the prescribed limit. Generally, businesses having turnover up to ₹2 crore can opt for Section 44AD. However, where cash receipts do not exceed the specified percentage of total turnover, the turnover limit may extend up to ₹3 crore. This provision encourages businesses to receive payments through banking channels and digital modes. For example: A business has annual turnover of ₹2.70 crore. Out of this, almost all payments are received through UPI, bank transfer, or other digital methods. Such a business may qualify for the higher turnover limit if all other conditions are satisfied. Businesses and Persons Not Eligible Under Section 44AD Although Section 44AD benefits many small businesses, certain categories are specifically excluded. Professionals Covered Under Section 44AA Specified professionals cannot opt for Section 44AD. Examples include: Chartered Accountants Lawyers Doctors Architects Engineers Technical consultants Professionals generally fall under Section 44ADA, which provides a separate presumptive taxation scheme. Commission and Brokerage Businesses Persons earning income mainly through commission or brokerage activities are not eligible under Section 44AD. This includes businesses where income depends primarily on commission-based arrangements. Companies and LLPs Companies and LLPs cannot claim benefits under Section 44AD. The scheme is available mainly for resident individuals, HUFs, and partnership firms. Income Calculation Under Section 44AD Under Section 44AD, income is calculated by applying a prescribed percentage to turnover. The formula is: Presumptive Income = Turnover × Applicable Presumptive Rate The applicable rate depends on the method through which business receipts are received. Calculation at 8% Presumptive Rate Where receipts are received through cash transactions or other non-digital methods, income is generally calculated at 8% of turnover. Example: Annual turnover of business: ₹80 lakh Presumptive income: ₹80 lakh × 8% = ₹6.40 lakh The taxpayer will declare ₹6.40 lakh as business income. Calculation at 6% Presumptive Rate Where receipts are received through digital modes or banking channels, income can be calculated at 6%. Example: Digital receipts: ₹80 lakh Presumptive income: ₹80 lakh × 6% = ₹4.80 lakh This lower rate provides an incentive for businesses to adopt digital payments. For the statutory basis and treatment of the 8% and 6% rates, see TaxGuru’s Section 44AD presumptive taxation article. Treatment of Expenses Under Section 44AD One of the most important aspects of Section 44AD is that separate deduction of expenses is not allowed. Under normal taxation, businesses can claim deductions for expenses such as: Rent Employee salaries Electricity bills Transportation expenses Repairs Depreciation However, under Section 44AD, these expenses are considered already adjusted while calculating presumptive income. Therefore, once income is calculated under the presumptive scheme, taxpayers cannot reduce taxable income further by claiming additional expenses. TaxGuru’s Presumptive Taxation Scheme | Income Tax | Section 44AD also discusses the treatment of deductions and the consequences of declaring income below the presumptive rate. Conclusion Section 44AD of the Income Tax Act provides a simplified taxation option for eligible small businesses by allowing them to calculate taxable income based on turnover instead of maintaining detailed books of accounts and calculating actual profits after considering individual expenses. This scheme is especially beneficial for small traders, retailers, and entrepreneurs who have simple business operations and want to reduce the burden of complex accounting and tax compliance procedures. However, businesses should carefully evaluate their turnover, actual profit margins, expenses, business structure, and future growth plans before opting for the presumptive taxation scheme. A proper understanding of eligibility conditions, income calculation methods, and compliance requirements helps taxpayers choose the most suitable taxation approach. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Q1. What is Section 44AD of the Income Tax Act? Ans. Section 44AD provides a presumptive taxation scheme for eligible small businesses. It allows taxpayers to calculate income based on a fixed percentage of turnover instead of maintaining detailed books of accounts and calculating actual profits after deducting expenses. Q2. Who can opt for Section 44AD? Ans. Resident individuals, resident Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs), and resident partnership firms, excluding Limited Liability Partnerships (LLPs), can opt for Section 44AD if they carry on eligible businesses and satisfy prescribed turnover and other conditions. For a broader overview of eligibility under the presumptive taxation provisions, see Taxation of taxpayers opting for presumptive taxation schemes. Q3. Can companies opt for Section 44AD? Ans. No, companies cannot opt for Section 44AD. The scheme is available only to resident individuals, HUFs, and eligible partnership firms. Companies must calculate taxable income under normal provisions of the Income Tax Act by maintaining proper financial records. Q4. Can LLPs claim benefits under Section 44AD? Ans. No, LLPs are specifically excluded from Section 44AD. Although partnership firms can use this scheme, Limited Liability Partnerships cannot claim presumptive taxation benefits and must follow regular taxation provisions for calculating taxable business income. Q5. What is the turnover limit under Section 44AD? Ans. Businesses with turnover up to ₹2 crore can generally opt for Section 44AD. However, the turnover limit may extend to ₹3 crore where cash receipts do not exceed the prescribed percentage of total turnover. Q6. What is the presumptive income rate under Section 44AD? Ans. Under Section 44AD, income is generally calculated at 8% of turnover for cash receipts and 6% for eligible digital transactions. The applicable percentage depends on the mode through which business payments are received. Q7. Can a taxpayer declare lower income under Section 44AD? Ans. Yes, a taxpayer may declare lower income than the prescribed percentage. However, if conditions are satisfied, maintaining books of accounts and getting a tax audit may become mandatory depending on total income and applicable provisions. TaxGuru’s Section 44AD guidance on declaring lower or higher income discusses this aspect further. Q8. Are business expenses deductible under Section 44AD? Ans. No, separate deductions for business expenses are not allowed under Section 44AD. Expenses like rent, salary, electricity, repairs, and depreciation are considered already adjusted while calculating presumptive income under the prescribed percentage. Q9. Is maintaining books of accounts mandatory under Section 44AD? Ans. Generally, taxpayers opting for Section 44AD and declaring prescribed income are not required to maintain detailed books. However, maintaining basic invoices, transaction records, and bank statements is recommended for proper documentation and compliance. Q10. Is tax audit required under Section 44AD? Ans. Tax audit is generally not required when income is declared according to the prescribed presumptive rate. However, if lower income is declared and applicable conditions are fulfilled, tax audit requirements may apply. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under income tax act 1961Presumptive Taxation SchemeSection 44AD Author Info Name: Compliance Calendar LLP Qualification: Graduate Company: Compliance Calendar LLP Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 63 View full profile → More from Compliance Calendar LLP Section 194Q vs 206C(1H): TDS & TCS on High-Value Goods Transactions September 7, 2026 Tax Audit Under Section 44AB: Limits, Forms, Due Dates and Penalties September 5, 2026 TDS Compliance Checklist for Businesses: Rules, Rates and Deadlines August 25, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Income Tax Day 2026: From Tax Collection to Nation Building – India’s Next Tax Revolution September 8, 2026 Call It “Souharda” or “Society”—Co-operation by Any Name Qualifies u/s 80P: Bangalore ITAT September 8, 2026 Retracted Statements and Unverified Tally Data Cannot Prove Cash Loans: ITAT Mumbai September 8, 2026 ITAT Deletes ₹25.51 Lakh Addition U/s 56(2)(x), Says Stamp Value Cannot Create Property September 8, 2026 ITAT Condones 308-Day Delay, Revives CPC Adjustment Appeal September 8, 2026 Bad-Debt Provision Allowed as Individual Debtor Accounts Were Written Off: ITAT Mumbai September 8, 2026