Summary: The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Rules, 2026 presents the Welfare Officer as a statutory institutional interface connecting management and workers across industrial harmony, grievance redressal, labour policies, statutory obligations, welfare facilities, social security and worker development. The requirement applies to factories, mines and plantations, with an establishment ordinarily employing between 250 and 500 workers required to appoint at least one Welfare Officer and additional requirements where worker strength exceeds 500. The Rules also address proportionate representation of women Welfare Officers where both male and female workers are employed and designate one Welfare Officer as Chief Welfare Officer where more than one is appointed. A Welfare Officer must possess specified postgraduate qualifications and knowledge of the language spoken by the majority of workers, and is required to receive appropriate executive-level status. The duties extend beyond amenities to maintaining harmonious relations, facilitating grievance redressal, acting as a liaison between management and workers, understanding workers’ perspectives, advising on labour-law and welfare obligations, welfare facilities, training, education and worker development. At the same time, the role has statutory boundaries: a Welfare Officer shall not deal with disciplinary cases or represent management against workers before a conciliation officer or tribunal. Organisations are therefore encouraged to treat the position as a component of workforce governance, supported by structured consultation, grievance mechanisms, appropriate authority, records and coordination with relevant functions while maintaining statutory boundaries. A statutory role connecting workers, management, welfare, compliance and workplace harmony When organisations hear the term Welfare Officer, it is often associated with employee amenities, welfare facilities or worker grievances. However, The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Rules, 2026 presents a much wider role. The Welfare Officer is not merely responsible for welfare activities. The role is designed as an important institutional interface between management and workers, with responsibilities covering industrial harmony, grievance redressal, labour policies, statutory obligations, welfare facilities, social security and worker development. For organisations covered by the provision, this is therefore a role that deserves much greater strategic attention. Table of Contents▸ Who needs to appoint a Welfare Officer? Who can be appointed as a Welfare Officer? Welfare Officer is an executive-level role What does a Welfare Officer actually do? 1. Building harmonious relations 2. Facilitating grievance redressal 3. Understanding the workers' perspective 4. Advising on labour-law and welfare obligations 5. Advising on welfare facilities 6. Supporting training and worker development What a Welfare Officer cannot do From "Welfare" to Workforce Governance What should organizations do now? The larger message Show all 14 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Who needs to appoint a Welfare Officer? It applies to factories, mines and plantations. An establishment ordinarily employing between 250 and 500 workers is required to appoint at least one Welfare Officer. Where the number of workers exceeds 500, an additional Welfare Officer is required for every additional 500 workers or fraction thereof over 500. The Rules also specifically address gender representation. Where both male and female workers are employed, the number of women Welfare Officers is to be proportionate to the women workers employed. Further, where more than 100 women are employed and the total number of women workers does not exceed 1,000, an additional woman Welfare Officer is required. Where more than one Welfare Officer is appointed, one of them is to be designated as the Chief Welfare Officer. Who can be appointed as a Welfare Officer? A Welfare Officer must possess a post-graduate degree or diploma in Social Work, Human Resources Management or Labour Welfare from an institution recognized by the Central or State Government for this purpose. The person must also have knowledge of the language spoken by the majority of workers in the establishment. This requirement is significant. A Welfare Officer is expected to understand not only organisational processes but also the workforce and its communication environment. Welfare Officer is an executive-level role The Rules require that the Welfare Officer be given appropriate status corresponding to other executives of the establishment and be appointed on an executive or officer pay scale. The conditions of service are also to correspond with executives or officers of similar status. There is also an important protection in case of discharge or dismissal: the Welfare Officer has a right of appeal to the Chief Inspector-cum-Facilitator, whose decision is final and binding upon the employer. This reinforces the independent and responsible nature of the position. What does a Welfare Officer actually do? The real significance of Rule 57 lies in the duties prescribed under sub-rule (v). 1. Building harmonious relations The Welfare Officer is expected to establish contacts and hold consultations with management and workers with a view to maintaining harmonious relations. This makes the role fundamentally preventive—not merely reactive. A good Welfare Officer should therefore be able to identify emerging workforce concerns before they develop into serious employee-relations issues. 2. Facilitating grievance redressal The Welfare Officer is required to bring workers’ grievances to the attention of management with a view to securing expeditious redressal. The Officer also acts as a liaison officer between management and workers. This is particularly important in large industrial establishments where communication gaps can quickly become trust gaps. The Welfare Officer can therefore play an important role in ensuring that worker concerns reach the appropriate management level and that communication flows back to employees. 3. Understanding the workers’ perspective The Rules expect the Welfare Officer to study and understand the point of view of workers. This understanding is intended to help management shape and formulate labour policies and subsequently interpret those policies to workers in a language they can understand. This creates a two-way responsibility: Workers → Welfare Officer → Management and Management Policy → Welfare Officer → Workers The Welfare Officer therefore becomes an important communication and interpretation channel within the organisation. 4. Advising on labour-law and welfare obligations The role also extends into compliance. The Welfare Officer is expected to advise on statutory and other obligations relating to: Working hours Maternity benefits Medical care Compensation for injuries and sickness Other welfare measures Social security benefits This means that the Welfare Officer cannot effectively perform the role by focusing only on employee engagement or welfare activities. An understanding of applicable labour and social-security requirements becomes essential. 5. Advising on welfare facilities The Welfare Officer is also expected to advise management regarding welfare facilities such as: Housing facilities Foodstuffs Social and recreational facilities Sanitation Individual personnel problems Education of workers’ children The emphasis is therefore not simply on whether a facility exists, but also on whether the facility adequately addresses workforce needs. 6. Supporting training and worker development The Welfare Officer’s responsibilities also extend to training. The Rules specifically refer to advising management on the training of: New recruits Apprentices Workers transferred to another role Workers promoted to another position Instructors Supervisors The Officer is also expected to supervise and control notice boards and information bulletins, promote workers’ education and encourage attendance at technical institutes. This brings an interesting dimension to the role. Worker welfare is not limited to amenities—it also includes information, education, capability and development. What a Welfare Officer cannot do There is an equally important boundary. A Welfare Officer shall not deal with disciplinary cases. The Welfare Officer also cannot appear on behalf of management against workers or represent management before a conciliation officer or tribunal. This distinction is critical. The Welfare Officer is expected to facilitate communication, welfare and harmonious relations—not become an extension of the disciplinary or litigation function of management. From “Welfare” to Workforce Governance Rule 57 provides an opportunity for organisations to rethink the traditional understanding of the Welfare Officer. The role can be viewed through five interconnected dimensions: Employee Relations: Building communication and harmonious relations. Grievance Management: Facilitating timely identification and redressal of worker concerns. Labour Compliance: Advising on statutory obligations affecting workers. Employee Welfare: Supporting welfare facilities, sanitation, social security and other employee needs. Workforce Development: Supporting training, education and worker capability. This makes the Welfare Officer a potentially important component of workforce governance. What should organizations do now? Organizations should not treat the requirement as merely another compliance checklist item. They should consider: 1. Assessing applicability based on workforce strength and establishment category. 2. Reviewing the qualification and experience of the proposed Welfare Officer. 3. Determining the requirement for women Welfare Officers based on workforce composition. 4. Defining the role and authority of the Welfare Officer clearly. 5. Giving the position appropriate organisational status. 6. Creating structured worker-connect mechanisms for consultation and grievance identification. 7. Establishing a documented grievance escalation and follow-up process. 8. Integrating the Welfare Officer with HR, IR, EHS, medical and social-security processes, while maintaining the statutory boundaries of the role. 9. Maintaining appropriate records of consultations, grievances, welfare initiatives and advisory activities. 10. Training the Welfare Officer on applicable labour laws, employee relations, communication and workplace welfare. The larger message The OSH framework is increasingly looking at workplace safety and employee welfare as part of a broader system of responsible workforce management. A Welfare Officer is not simply someone who manages a canteen, recreation facility or worker complaint. The role is about creating a structured channel through which management understands its workforce and workers understand the organization. In an era of changing labour regulations, evolving workforce expectations and greater focus on workplace governance, the effectiveness of the Welfare Officer may ultimately depend not on how many welfare activities are conducted, but on how effectively the role contributes to trust, communication, compliance and harmonious workplace relations. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under labour laws Author Info Name: Lalit Babbar Qualification: MBA Company: Naks & Associates Location: West Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 20 View full profile → More from Lalit Babbar OSH Rules 2026: Mine Safety, Medical Fitness, Rescue & Training Compliance September 7, 2026 OSH Rules 2026: Journey Allowance & Audio-Visual Worker Compliance Framework September 1, 2026 Contract Labour Under OSH Rules, 2026: Key Compliance Guide August 24, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Mere Possession of Books Cannot Justify Preventive Detention: J&K&L High Court September 13, 2026 NCLT Mumbai Admits Section 9 CIRP Petition for Unpaid Operational Debt September 13, 2026 NCLAT Holds It Cannot Condone Delay Beyond 45 Days under IBC September 13, 2026 Supreme Court Refers Section 47-A Stamp Duty Undervaluation Test to Larger Bench September 13, 2026 Allahabad HC Lambasts Misuse of UP Control of Goonda Act, 1970 September 13, 2026 WhatsApp Chats, Lab Report Fail to Prove Pre-Existing Dispute: NCLT Admits CIRP September 12, 2026