Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13025 Case Name M. Natarajan Vs Proper Officer /Commercial Tax Officer (Madras High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Madras High Court Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); M. Natarajan Vs Proper Officer /Commercial Tax Officer (Madras High Court) Summary: The Madras High Court considered a writ petition challenging the order dated 29.08.2024, insofar as Input Tax Credit (ITC) was rejected on the ground of belated filing of returns under Section 16(4) of the applicable GST enactments. The petitioner submitted that the law had subsequently been amended by insertion of Section 16(5), which re-fixed the time limits for filing returns and availing ITC. On this basis, the petitioner contended that the impugned order was no longer sustainable. The respondent’s learned Additional Government Pleader accepted notice on behalf of the respondent. In view of the change in law through incorporation of Section 16(5), the Court held that the impugned order could not be sustained to the extent it rejected ITC on the ground of belated filing of returns. Accordingly, the Court partly set aside the impugned order insofar as such rejection of ITC was concerned. The writ petition was disposed of with the above observation, the connected miscellaneous petition was closed, and no costs were imposed. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF MADRAS HIGH COURT An order dated 29.08.2024 is assailed partly only insofar as belated filing of returns under Section 16(4) of applicable GST enactments is concerned. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the law was amended by inserting Section 16(5) re-fixing the time limits for filing returns and availing of Input Tax Credit (ITC). On account of this development, he submits that the impugned order is not sustainable. 3. Ms. Amirta Poonkodi Dinakaran, learned Additional Government Pleader (Tax), accepts notice on behalf of the respondent. 4. In view of the change in law by incorporation of Section 16(5), the impugned order is set aside partly insofar as rejection of ITC on the ground of belated filing of returns is concerned. 5. With the above observation, this writ petition is disposed of. Consequently, connected miscellaneous petition is closed. No costs. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgmentsinput tax credit Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,902 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi ITAT Mumbai Deletes Four Penalties Where Department Issued PAN in Wrong Status September 12, 2026 ITAT Delhi Allows Rs. 4.24 Crore ESOP Deduction Under Section 37(1) September 12, 2026 Section 68 Inapplicable to Earlier-Year Funds Converted into Preference Shares: ITAT Delhi September 12, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Bombay HC Orders Refund of Interest on IGST Repayment for Pre-2024 Imports September 12, 2026 GSTAT allows appeal after excess ITC and interest reversed before demand notice September 12, 2026 Blocked ITC Cannot Satisfy GST Appeal Pre-Deposit Under Rule 86A: Delhi HC September 12, 2026 Rajasthan HC Condones 167-Day GST Appeal Delay Beyond Statutory Period Under Article 226 September 12, 2026 Kerala HC Directs Reconsideration of ITC Denial for Financial Years 2018-21 September 12, 2026 Delayed GST Appeal Restored for Merits Hearing: Rajasthan HC September 12, 2026