Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: GSTN has introduced a new “Multistate Registration” facility enabling taxpayers to apply for GST registration in multiple States/Union Territories simultaneously under the same PAN. At present, the facility is available only to Normal Taxpayers. A dedicated “Multistate Registration” tab has been added to the homepage of the GST Common Portal, through which applicants can select the States/UTs where registration is required. After selection, a Master Temporary Reference Number (TRN) is generated. Using this Master TRN, the applicant can furnish Common Registration Information (CRI), including Business Details, Promoter/Partner details, Authorised Signatory, Authorised Representative, and details of Goods and Services. The Master TRN must be submitted within 15 days. Once the CRI is submitted, separate individual TRNs are generated for each selected State/UT. The common information furnished through the CRI is automatically populated in each individual TRN and remains editable. Applicants must thereafter provide State/UT-specific details, including Principal Place of Business (PPoB), Additional Place of Business (APoB), State-specific Information, and Aadhaar authentication. The new functionality eliminates the need to repeatedly enter common information in separate GST registration applications for different States/UTs, thereby reducing repetitive data entry and facilitating ease of doing business. Goods and Services Tax Government of India, States and Union Territories Advisory on “Multistate Registration” Facility for GST Registration Oct 1st, 2026 1. It is informed that an option for “Multistate Registration” has been introduced. The functionality enables taxpayers to apply for registration in multiple States/UTs simultaneously. Taxpayers seeking GST registration in more than one State/UT under the same PAN can use this functionality. Currently, the functionality is available only for Normal Taxpayers. 2. A “Multistate Registration” tab has been introduced in the homepage of the Common Portal, where Taxpayers can select multiple States/UTs for registration. Upon selection of the required States/UTs, a Master TRN is generated. 3. Using the Master TRN, the applicant can provide the Common Registration Information (CRI), comprising details such as Business Details, Promoter/Partner details, Authorised signatory, Authorised representative, and Goods and Services. The Master TRN is required to be submitted within 15 days. 4. Once the CRI is submitted, individual TRNs are generated for each selected State/UT. In the respective individual TRN, the common information already provided through the CRI is auto populated and remains editable. Further, the applicant is required to provide the remaining information such as Principal Place of Business (PPoB), Additional Place of Business (APoB), State-specific Information, and Aadhaar authentication. 5. Thus, the applicant is not required to enter the common information separately for each State/UT Registration application. The functionality reduces repetitive data entry and facilitates ease of doing business. Thanks, Team GSTN Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST NotificationsGST Registration Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Karnataka HC Restores GST Appeal After Condoning Delay on Medical Grounds October 2, 2026 GST Demand Cannot Exceed Show Cause Notice: Calcutta High Court October 2, 2026 GST Registration Restoration Makes Departmental Appeals Infructuous: GSTAT Hyderabad October 2, 2026 Outsourced Caterer’s Hospital Food Supply Not GST Exempt Healthcare: GSTAT Hyderabad October 2, 2026 GSTAT Ernakulam Sets Aside GST PenaltyOrder for Breach of Seven-Day Timeline October 2, 2026 Telangana HC Grants Anticipatory Bail in Rs.98.47 Crore Alleged Fake ITC Case October 2, 2026