National Stock Exchange of India Circular Department: LISTING Download Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/22 Date: March 21, 2023 The Company Secretary All Listed Companies Dear Sir / Madam, Sub: Path of filing of disclosures related to Corporate Action on NEAPS Portal Please refer Regulation 10 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 which requires all listed entities to file all reports, statements, documents, filings, and any other information to the Exchange on the specified electronic platform. The Exchange has designated NEAPS Portal as the specified electronic platform for filings at National Stock Exchange of India Limited. It is observed that certain listed entities are uploading the disclosure of corporate action (e.g., Record Date or Book Closure dates for Dividend, Annual General Meeting, etc.) in announcements under subjects like Outcome of the Board /Shareholder Meeting, etc. The listed entities are requested that the intimation regarding fixation of Record Date or Book Closure Dates for any corporate action, needs to be separately intimated to the Exchange. Please note a separate tab for Corporate Actions is available on the NEAPS Portal (i.e., NEAPS – Compliance – Announcements - Announcements/CA - Intimation Type: Corporate Action). Thus, all intimation regarding Record Date or Book Closure Dates for any Corporate Action is to be filed separately under this tab. Please note that non-intimation of Record Date or Book Closure Dates separately under Regulation 42 may result in the Exchange not taking the same on record and listed entities will be responsible for subsequent consequences. It is reiterated that the Exchange will take cognizance of only those disclosures which are filed under relevant path as specified above using NSE’s Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS). Listed entities are requested to please take note of the above and ensure compliance. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Yogesh Deshmukh Senior Manager