Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), through Press Release No. 62/2026 dated October 05, 2026, announced the opening of its Local Office in Chandigarh. Shri Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Chairman, SEBI, inaugurated the office, which is located at SCO No. 20-25, 2nd Floor, Jeevan Prakash Building, Sector 17B, Chandigarh, India-160017. The Chandigarh Local Office will have jurisdiction over the States of Punjab and Haryana and the Union Territory of Chandigarh and will function under the administrative control and jurisdiction of SEBI’s Northern Regional Office at New Delhi. The Local Office has been assigned several investor- and market-oriented functions. These include facilitating redressal of investor grievances against listed companies and market intermediaries, spreading investor education and financial literacy, and engaging with issuers, particularly in areas concerning Small and Medium Enterprises, Social Stock Exchanges, Municipal Bonds and Corporate Bonds. The office will also undertake such other functions as may be delegated to Local Offices from time to time. The opening therefore provides SEBI with a dedicated local presence for carrying out investor protection, education and issuer-engagement functions across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA Press Releases No. 62/2026 SEBI opens a Local Office in Chandigarh Shri Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Chairman, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), inaugurated the Local Office of SEBI in Chandigarh, today. The Chandigarh Local Office of SEBI is located at SCO No. 20-25, 2nd Floor Jeevan Prakash Building, Sector 17B, Chandigarh, India-160017. The Chandigarh Local Office will cover the States of Punjab and Haryana and the Union Territory of Chandigarh. It will function under the administrative control and jurisdiction of SEBI’s Northern Regional Office at New Delhi. The functions of the Chandigarh Local Office shall include facilitating the redressal of investor grievances against listed companies and market intermediaries, spread investor education and financial literacy, engage with issuers forum especially Small and Medium Enterprises, Social Stock Exchanges, Municipal Bonds, Corporate Bonds, etc. within its jurisdiction and such other functions as may be delegated from time to time to the Local Offices. Mumbai October 05, 2026 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under SEBISEBI notifications Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in SEBI SEBI Launches Samajh Se Investing Simple Campaign, MUST Initiative & WhatsApp Channel October 6, 2026 SEBI Mandates Investor Awareness Messages on Broker Websites and Apps From November 1 October 1, 2026 SEBI Revamps Document Number Verification System for Authentication of Letters and Notices October 1, 2026 SEBI Renews Recognition of BSE Clearing for Three Years from October 3, 2026 September 29, 2026 Public InvIT Listing Requires Early Review of Structure, Compliance & Governance September 29, 2026 Public InvIT Listing Requires Financial, Valuation, Borrowing & Disclosure Readiness September 29, 2026