Summary: The article examines whether monetary-limit instructions issued by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) for reducing Government litigation apply to departmental appeals involving absolute confiscation of smuggled or prohibited goods. It explains that the determinative element contemplated in the Board’s Instruction F. No. 390/Misc./163/2010-JC dated 17.08.2011 is ordinarily the duty or tax under dispute, whereas an appeal seeking absolute confiscation concerns forfeiture of goods rather than recovery of a quantified tax demand. Referring to Section 11 of the Customs Act, 1962, the article highlights the statutory purposes behind import and export prohibitions, including national security, prevention of smuggling, conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of injury to the economy. It relies upon Om Prakash Bhatia on the treatment of goods imported or exported contrary to prescribed conditions and discusses the Meghalaya High Court decision in CC(P) Vs Daleep Kumar Verma & Ors., which held that the monetary-limit circular did not cover a case where success of the Revenue could result in absolute confiscation without a right of redemption. The article also refers to the subsequent CESTAT Hyderabad decision in Commissioner of Customs, Vijayawada Vs Shri Rajendra Kumar Jain. It further analyses Section 131BA of the Customs Act, under which CBIC fixes monetary limits for departmental appeals, and concludes that such litigation-management thresholds should not be applied to defeat appeals whose substantive relief is absolute confiscation. Absolute Confiscation: Monetary Limit Circular Not Applicable to Appeals – Upholding the Mandate of the Customs Act, 1962 1. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) regularly issues instructions/circulars fixing monetary limits to regulate and reduce government litigation before appellate forums. While these instructions reduce revenue disputes, a critical legal distinction arises when applying them to cases involving Smuggling of prohibited goods being imported or restricted goods being Imported in violation of Import restrictions. It is settled law that violation of conditions for Import of restricted goods would turn such restricted goods into prohibited goods, in terms of Customs Law, as held by Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Om Prakash Bhatia [2003 (7) TMI 74 – SC]. 2. In the case of imports, for example goods like gold, foreign currency, drugs etc., which are brought in violation of conditions imposed or in violation of prohibition imposed, the said issue would be acted upon by way of proceedings starting with issuing of Show Cause Notice (SCN) with proposal for absolute confiscation of seized goods apart from duty, penalties etc. as applicable and followed by an adjudication order. Later if the Department finds the adjudication order is not legal and proper; the Department by way of appeals takes the same up before CESTAT, High Court, etc. While filing such appeals the Department fixes monetary limits threshold, for filing appeals wherein the determinative factor is duty/tax. However, such monetary thresholds appear not applicable in cases proposing or ordering absolute confiscation of such goods. 3. A precise legal analysis reveals that monetary thresholds are strictly inapplicable to cases demanding absolute confiscation, as extending them to such matters would compromise national security, cause economic injury to Indian economy, distort judicial authority, and directly violate the statutory framework of the Customs Act, 1962. Table of Contents▸ The Statutory Determinative Element: Duty vs. Absolute Confiscation Safeguarding National Economy and Public Security under Section 11 Judicial Reinforcement: The Meghalaya High Court and CESTAT, Hyderabad, Precedents Statutory Limits of Section 131BA of Customs Act, 1962, and Judicial Restraint Conclusion Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); The Statutory Determinative Element: Duty vs. Absolute Confiscation 4. The foundational criteria for applying litigation thresholds are strictly in terms of revenue/duty/tax. As explicitly outlined in Paragraph 2 of the Board’s Instruction (F. No. 390/Misc./163/2010-JC,dt.17.08.2011), the sole “determinative element” to ascertain whether a matter meets the threshold for filing appeals is the duty or tax under dispute. The policy illustrates that monetary ceilings apply to cases where a specific quantum of outstanding duty, alongside its corresponding penalty or interest, is being litigated. 5. Conversely, when the Department files an appeal seeking the absolute confiscation of seized goods, for example, gold, foreign currency, drugs etc brought in violation of conditions imposed or in violation of prohibition imposed, the core subject matter is not a quantifiable revenue/duty/tax demand. Absolute confiscation deprives the offender of any title to the goods without the option of a redemption fine. Because the legal objective is the complete forfeiture of contraband rather than the recovery of a tax deficit, there is no “disputed duty amount”to measure against the monetary threshold. Safeguarding National Economy and Public Security under Section 11 6. Applying monetary caps to smuggling cases ignores the broader legislative purpose of the Customs Act. Section 11 of the Customs Act, 1962, empowers the Central Government to prohibit or restrict the import and export of specific goods. These prohibitions are not designed for revenue collection; they are critical statutory instruments enacted to achieve vital national objectives, including: Maintainingthe security of India. Preventinginjury to the national economy from the uncontrolled import or export of gold and silver. Conservingforeign exchange and safeguarding the balance of payments. Prevention of Smuggling Preventionof serious injury to domestic production of goods of any description. 7. If the Department were barred from appealing flawed lower-forum orders simply because the monetary value of the seized item was low, restricted or prohibited goods would routinely enter domestic circulation via redemptions. Treating economic threats as mere mathematical tax disputes would severely compromise the country’s financial borders. It would allow smugglers to escape absolute forfeiture by breaking contraband down into smaller shipments that sit safely below litigation thresholds. The relevant legal provision to safe guard Security of Country, Prevention of Smuggling, Prevention of Injury to the Economy of the Country etc are provided vide Section 11 of the Customs Act, 1962, is as follows; 8. The Provisions of Section 11 of Customs Act, 1962 are as follows; “CHAPTER IV PROHIBITIONS ON IMPORTATION AND EXPORTATION OF GOODS SECTION 11. Power to prohibit importation or exportation of goods. — (1) If the Central Government is satisfied that it is necessary so to do for any of the purposes specified in sub-section (2), it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, prohibit either absolutely or subject to such conditions (to be fulfilled before or after clearance) as may be specified in the notification, the import or export of goods of any specified description. (2) The purposes referred to in sub-section (1) are the following :- (a) the maintenance of the security of India; (b) the maintenance of public order and standards of decency or morality; (c) the prevention of smuggling; (d) the prevention of shortage of goods of any description; (e) the conservation of foreign exchange and the safeguarding of balance of payments; (f) the prevention of injury to the economy of the country by the uncontrolled import or export of [gold, silver or any other goods]; (g) the prevention of surplus of any agricultural product or the product of fisheries; (h) the maintenance of standards for the classification, grading or marketing of goods in international trade; (i) the establishment of any industry; (j) the prevention of serious injury to domestic production of goods of any description; (k) the protection of human, animal or plant life or health; (l) the protection of national treasures of artistic, historic or archaeological value; (m) the conservation of exhaustible natural resources; (n) the protection of patents, trade marks [, copyrights, designs and geographical indications]; (o) the prevention of deceptive practices; (p) the carrying on of foreign trade in any goods by the State, or by a Corporation owned or controlled by the State to the exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens of India; (q) the fulfilment of obligations under the Charter of the United Nations for the maintenance of international peace and security; (r) the implementation of any treaty, agreement or convention with any country; (s) the compliance of imported goods with any laws which are applicable to similar goods produced or manufactured in India; (t) the prevention of dissemination of documents containing any matter which is likely to prejudicially affect friendly relations with any foreign State or is derogatory to national prestige; (u) the prevention of the contravention of any law for the time being in force; and (v) any other purpose conducive to the interests of the general public. [(3) Any prohibition or restriction or obligation relating to import or export of any goods or class of goods or clearance thereof provided in any other law for the time being in force, or any rule or regulation made or any order or notification issued thereunder, shall be executed under the provisions of that Act only if such prohibition or restriction or obligation is notified under the provisions of this Act, subject to such exceptions, modifications or adaptations as the Central Government deems fit.] Judicial Reinforcement: The Meghalaya High Court and CESTAT, Hyderabad, Precedents 9. This legal distinction was firmly upheld by the Hon’ble High Court of Meghalaya in CC(P) Vs Daleep Kumar Verma & Ors. [2024 (12) TMI 300]. The High Court clarified that the plain intent and purpose of the monetary limits circulars are bound to commercial revenue realization. The Government chooses not to pursue an adverse order if the potential financial recovery falls below a specified threshold. The High Court categorically ruled that these monetary limits circulars do not cover cases of smugglingwhere orders for absolute confiscation are provided without a right of redemption. If the Revenue succeeds in such an appeal, the outcome is the absolute forfeiture of the contraband. Because the ultimate legal relief is physical confiscation rather than tax collection, the appeal cannot be dismissed on the pretext that the underlying value or duty falls below the standard litigation ceiling. In the said decision of High Court of Meghalaya, it is held as follows; “9. First of all, the intent and purpose of the Circular is very plain. Where realisation of duty and other levies are involved, the Government would only challenge any adverse order, if on success in the proceedings, it would be able to realize an amount equal to or above the threshold limit indicated in the notification. Any realization below the threshold limit did not seem to have been considered significant by the Government. This notification clearly would not cover cases of smuggling where orders for confiscation and imposition of fine, penalty etc. are provided, without any right given to the delinquent to redeem the goods upon payment of duty, penalty etc. This is a case where no such right has been given. 10. Therefore, if the revenue succeeds before us the order-in-original is likely to be restored resulting in absolute confiscation of the goods along with other penalties. If the respondents succeed, it would result in affirmation of the order of the Tribunal. So if one possible result is absolute confiscation of the goods without any right of redemption on payment of duty, penalty etc. there is no question of the appeal being dismissed on the ground that the duty payable would be less than Rs.1 crore.” 10. The Hon’ble CESTAT Hyderabad in the case Commissioner of Customs, Vijayawada Vs Shri Rajendra Kumar Jain reported in 2026 (7) TMI 1563 – CESTAT HYDERABAD, followed and upheld the above legal enunciation and upheld the Departmental appeal, even though the duty/tax element in the said case is below the monetary limit for filing the case before CESTAT. However, the case was decided against Department on other grounds. Thus, the principle that in cases involving absolute confiscation of goods without right of redemption, the monetary limits threshold circular cannot be applied, is once again upheld. Statutory Limits of Section 131BA of Customs Act, 1962, and Judicial Restraint 11. The Board (CBIC) derives its power to fix these administrative powers of fixing monetary limits/thresholds strictly from Section 131BA of the Customs Act, 1962. This section permits the Board to issue instructions to regulate appeals “as it may deem fit“. The Section 131BA reads as follows; 12. Section 131BA of Customs Act, 1962 prescribes that “the Board may, from time to time, issue orders or instructions or directions fixing such Monetary Limits, as it may deem fit, for the purpose regulating the filing of appeal, application,”……………. Under provisions of this Chapter. 13. In its administrative wisdom/as deem fit, the Board (CBIC) explicitly limited the application of these thresholds to disputes where duty or tax is the determinative factor. It deliberately chose not to extend these limits to cases involving absolute confiscation or severe statutory prohibitions. 14. Consequently, any attempt by an appellate tribunal or other judicial forums, to dismiss a departmental appeal involving absolute confiscation by invoking these monetary limits circulars would represent a misreading of legal provisions or overreach of its legal authority. It appears that the Tribunals or Courts lack the jurisdiction to rewrite administrative circulars or overturn the mandate prescribed in Section 11 of Customs Act, or expand the scope of Section 131BA, of Customs Act, 1962. Rewriting these provisions to cover non-revenue prohibitions would disrupt the clear separation of powers and undermine the statutory enforcement tools provided to Customs authorities and may also cause injury to the Security and Economy of the Country. Conclusion 15. The monetary limit circulars are specialized tools designed to reduce tax litigation by the Government; they are not a blanket immunity shield for smuggling or serious trade violations or prohibitions imposed under Customs Law or any other Law. When an offence risks injuring the national security or injuring national economy or violating trade prohibitions under Section 11 of Customs Act, 1962, absolute confiscation remains an essential enforcement remedy.Any interpretation that uses monetary thresholds to block departmental appeals against the unlawful release of smuggled goods/contraband, lacks a sound legal basis. It fails to align with the text of the Circulars, ignores clear High Court precedent, and compromises the Statutory protections built into the Customs Act, 1962. (The views expressed are personal) Author: V.R. Pavan Kumar, IRS, Assistant Commissioner (AR), CESTAT, Hyderabad. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Custom Duty Notifications Author Info Name: V R Pavan Kumar Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Location: Hyderabad, Telangana Articles Published: 6 View full profile → More from V R Pavan Kumar GSTAT vs CESTAT: Deciphering Jurisdiction for IGST on Import of Goods May 12, 2026 Is Refund Permissible without Challenging Assessment including Self-Assessment in Customs/Service Tax/GST? November 10, 2025 Can ITC Refund Be Granted Under GST Due to Business Closure? June 27, 2025 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty CBIC Clarifies Adjudication of Section 28AAA Customs SCNs Involving DGFT Scrips September 21, 2026 CESTAT Allows Customs Exemption for MEG Reclamation Plant Under Notification 50/2017-Cus September 21, 2026 Chhattisgarh HC Quashes MOOWR Licence Rejection, Orders Fresh Decision September 21, 2026 Bombay HC Quashes Customs Order Over Unanswered VJTI Expert Opinion September 21, 2026 CESTAT Chennai Allows Toyota Sensor Classifications and Sets Aside Customs Penalties September 21, 2026 Educational Board Affiliation Services Outside Entry 66 GST Exemption: GSTAT Delhi September 21, 2026