Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13478 Case Name PCIT Vs Nahar Enterprises (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); PCIT Vs Nahar Enterprises (Supreme Court of India) Background: Nahar Enterprises, a partnership firm engaged in construction and property development, developed the “Amrut Shakti” residential project at Chandivali, Mumbai and had claimed deduction under section 80IB(10) of the Income-tax Act, 1961. The firm was dissolved on 20 November 2011 after its business was taken over by Nahar Builders Ltd.; the Income Tax Department had been informed of the change on 1 December 2011. A search under section 132(1) and survey under section 133A were subsequently conducted on 2 February 2012. The assessee contended that the search warrant was issued in the name of the dissolved firm and therefore the consequential assessment was invalid. Read HC Judgment in this case: Flower Bed Area Cannot Be Included in Built-Up Area for Section 80IB(10) Deduction: Bombay HC The assessment under sections 143(3) read with 153A was nevertheless completed. The Assessing Officer also denied deduction under section 80IB(10), treating flower-bed/sunken areas, service areas, window areas and various projections as part of the “built-up area”. The CIT(A) excluded service area, window area, window projections and cupboard projections but included the flower-bed area. ITAT and High Court Proceedings The ITAT held that the assessment proceedings were a nullity because the search warrant had been issued in the name of a non-existent entity. On the substantive issue, it held that flower-bed areas below the floor level could not be included in “built-up area” for determining the 1,000 sq. ft. limit under section 80IB(10). It also upheld exclusion of the service area, window area, window projections and cupboard projections. The Revenue carried the matter to the Bombay High Court, raising questions concerning both the validity of the search warrant and the interpretation of “built-up area” under section 80IB(14)(a). The assessee submitted that the questions concerning the search warrant could be left open if the substantive entitlement to deduction was upheld. The High Court therefore examined the section 80IB(10) issues first. High Court’s Reasoning on Flower-Bed Area The High Court agreed with the ITAT that the flower-bed area could not form part of “built-up area”. Section 80IB(14)(a) defines built-up area by reference to the inner measurements of the residential unit at floor level, including projections and balconies, with the thickness of walls, but excluding common areas. The Court noted the factual findings that the flower-bed area was outside the residential unit, started where the balcony ended, was open to the sky, was a few inches below floor level and was not habitable or capable of effective use by the flat purchaser. It was therefore an ornamental/elevational feature rather than part of the inner measurements of the residential unit at floor level. Questions 6.4, 6.5 and 6.6 accordingly did not give rise to substantial questions of law. The High Court similarly upheld exclusion of the service area, window projections and cupboard projections. The service area functioned as a common service duct for pipes and was not usable by the flat purchaser; cupboard projections were already accounted for in the wall area; and window projections were elevational features situated above floor level and not usable as part of the flat. Question 6.7 also therefore did not raise a substantial question of law. The High Court ultimately dismissed the Revenue’s appeal. It expressly left Questions 6.1 to 6.3 concerning the validity of the search warrant undecided, while Question 6.8 did not arise for the assessment year under consideration. Supreme Court Challenge The Revenue challenged the High Court judgment before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court first condoned the delay. It then recorded that it found “no good ground and reason to interfere” with the impugned High Court judgment/order and dismissed the Special Leave Petition. Pending applications, if any, were also disposed of. The Supreme Court order did not undertake a separate examination of the interpretation of section 80IB(14)(a), the flower-bed area, service area, window projections or cupboard projections. Nor did it decide the questions concerning the validity of the search warrant, which the High Court had expressly left open. Its order was confined to declining interference with the High Court judgment. Final Ruling and Effect The Supreme Court’s dismissal left the Bombay High Court judgment undisturbed. Consequently, for the assessment year involved, the Revenue’s challenges to the exclusion of flower-bed area, service area, window projections and cupboard projections from the computation of “built-up area” under section 80IB(10) did not result in any interference with the assessee’s position. The questions concerning the search warrant remained undecided, and Question 6.8 was not considered because it related to another assessment year. FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER Delay condoned. However, we find no good ground and reason to interfere with the impugned judgment/order passed by the High Court. The special leave petition is, accordingly, dismissed. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Section 80IBsupreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,136 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Flower Bed Area Cannot Be Included in Built-Up Area for Section 80IB(10) Deduction: Bombay HC September 21, 2026 ITAT Delhi Upholds Setting Aside of Assessment for Section 144C Draft Order Failure September 21, 2026 Assessment Under Sections 143(3) and 263 Cannot Survive Quashed Revision Order: Bombay HC September 21, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax ITAT Delhi Upholds Setting Aside of Assessment for Section 144C Draft Order Failure September 21, 2026 Assessment Under Sections 143(3) and 263 Cannot Survive Quashed Revision Order: Bombay HC September 21, 2026 Delay Condoned After Notices Were Sent to Deceased CA’s Email: ITAT Indore September 21, 2026 ITAT Delhi Remands Apache Labs Section 10AA Claim for De Novo Verification September 21, 2026 Section 148 Return Cannot Support Fresh Section 11 Exemption Claim: ITAT Chandigarh September 21, 2026 ₹1.33 Cr Section 69 Addition Remanded for Verification of 38 Lenders: ITAT Mumbai September 21, 2026