Summary: A FORM GST DRC-01 appearing on the GST portal often creates immediate concern for a registered person, but the fundamental question is whether a legally valid show-cause notice has actually been issued to the taxpayer concerned. This issue has acquired renewed significance following the decision of the GST Appellate Tribunal, Lucknow in Saksham Knowledge Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Nitin Bansal, Commissioner, State Tax, Lucknow & Ors., Appeal No. APL/54/LCK/2026, decided on 14 September 2026. The reported facts reveal that although the taxpayer received FORM GST DRC-01, the substantive show-cause notice attached to it was addressed to another taxable person. The Tribunal held that FORM GST DRC-01 is only a summary of a show-cause notice and cannot replace the statutory requirement of issuing a proper notice to the person against whom demand proceedings are proposed. The consequential proceedings were set aside. The ruling reinforces the distinction between the statutory SCN and its electronic summary under Rule 142(1) of the CGST Rules. Earlier High Court decisions have similarly recognised that DRC-01 cannot substitute a proper SCN. Taxpayers should therefore examine the underlying notice, GSTIN, tax period, allegations, computation and relied-upon material immediately upon receipt of DRC-01. DRC-01 Is Only a Summary: GSTAT Lucknow Sets Aside Demand Where the Attached SCN Belonged to Another Taxpayer A timely reminder that a GST demand cannot stand unless the taxable person is served with a valid, intelligible and properly addressed show-cause notice. A FORM GST DRC-01 appearing on the GST portal often creates immediate concern for a registered person. The natural reaction is to look at the tax amount, interest and penalty proposed. But the first and more fundamental question should be this: Has a legally valid show-cause notice actually been issued to the taxpayer concerned? This question has acquired renewed significance following the decision of the GST Appellate Tribunal, Lucknow in Saksham Knowledge Services Pvt. Ltd. v. Nitin Bansal, Commissioner, State Tax, Lucknow & Ors., Appeal No. APL/54/LCK/2026, decided on 14 September 2026. The reported facts reveal a serious procedural defect. The taxpayer had received FORM GST DRC-01. However, the substantive show-cause notice attached with it was not addressed to that taxpayer. It pertained to another taxable person. The Tribunal held that FORM GST DRC-01 is only a summary of a show-cause notice and cannot replace the statutory requirement of issuing a proper notice to the person against whom demand proceedings are proposed. The consequential proceedings were set aside. This ruling is especially important for genuine taxpayers who may otherwise assume that an electronic demand summary by itself is sufficient to compel payment or defend a proceeding on merits. Table of Contents▸ The statutory position What happened in Saksham Knowledge Services Why a valid SCN is essential Earlier High Court support 1. M/s NKAS Services Private Limited v. State of Jharkhand & Ors. | Jharkhand High Court, W.P.(T) No. 2659 of 2021, decided on 9 February 2022; reported as 2021 SCC OnLine Jhar 1266 / 2021 (10) TMI 880 2. Roushan Kumar Chouhan v. Commissioner of State Tax, Jharkhand | Jharkhand High Court, W.P.(T) No. 1849 of 2022, decided on 3 August 2022; 2022 LiveLaw (Jha) 73 3. Ranjit Dutta v. State of Assam & Ors. | Gauhati High Court, W.P.(C) No. 1953 of 2025, order dated 8 April 2025 4. Md. Shoriful Islam v. State of Assam & Ors. | Gauhati High Court, W.P.(C) No. 471 of 2026, decided on 6 February 2026 Not every error will invalidate a demand What every taxpayer should check Suggested objection in a reply Practical guidance for genuine taxable persons Conclusion Show all 13 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); The statutory position Under the earlier section 73 framework of the CGST Act and corresponding State GST enactments, the proper officer was required to serve a notice upon the person chargeable with tax where tax was alleged to have remained unpaid, short-paid, erroneously refunded, or where input tax credit was alleged to have been wrongly availed or utilised. The language of the provision is significant. The officer must serve notice on “the person chargeable with tax” and call upon that person to show cause why the proposed tax, interest and penalty should not be recovered. Rule 142(1) of the CGST Rules provides for electronic service of a summary of the notice in FORM GST DRC-01. The expression “summary” itself makes the legislative purpose clear. DRC-01 is a portal-based concise intimation of the proceeding. It is not the primary adjudicatory notice replacing the detailed show-cause notice required by the Act. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs has also emphasised compliance with Rule 142 in relation to electronic service/uploading of the summary of SCN in DRC-01 and the summary of the order in DRC-07. That procedure does not dilute the requirement of a proper statutory notice. In simple terms: Valid SCN + DRC-01 summary ≠ DRC-01 alone A DRC-01 may accompany the SCN. It cannot become the SCN. What happened in Saksham Knowledge Services In Saksham Knowledge Services Pvt. Ltd., the basic defect was not a minor typo or an incomplete calculation. The notice attached to the DRC-01 was reportedly issued in the name of another taxpayer. This meant that the appellant was confronted with a summary in DRC-01 but did not have a substantive SCN setting out the department’s case against it. On these facts, the Tribunal treated the defect as foundational. It held that the requirement of a valid SCN under section 73 could not be satisfied merely by issuance of a DRC-01 summary. The important practical takeaway is that proceedings cannot validly begin against one taxpayer by attaching the SCN of another taxpayer. The taxpayer must know, in its own case: The identity of the person proceeded against. The relevant GSTIN and legal/trade name. The tax period involved. The precise allegation of short payment, wrong ITC, refund or other contravention. The statutory provisions invoked. The tax, interest and penalty computation. The documents, data, statements and material relied upon. The basis on which the officer has reached the proposed conclusion. The time allowed for reply and the opportunity of personal hearing. Where these requirements are absent, the taxpayer is denied the effective opportunity to answer the case. A defence cannot be meaningful unless the allegation itself is clear. The case-index record publicly available confirms Appeal No. APL/54/LCK/2026, its decision date of 14 September 2026, and the constitution of the Lucknow Bench. Professionals should nevertheless preserve and rely on the complete signed order when citing the decision in an appeal, writ petition or detailed representation. Why a valid SCN is essential A show-cause notice is not an empty procedural formality. It is the document that begins the adjudication process and defines the controversy between the department and the taxable person. A valid SCN must communicate the case that the taxpayer has to meet. It cannot merely state a figure, reproduce a table, refer vaguely to “mismatch,” or use general allegations without disclosing the factual foundation. The taxpayer may need to establish, for example: That the ITC was supported by tax invoices, receipt of goods/services and payment to suppliers. That GSTR-2B mismatch arose due to timing, amendment, supplier reporting error, ISD distribution, import credit or technical portal issues. That the transaction was exempt, zero-rated, outside the scope of supply, or correctly taxed. That a demand is barred by limitation. That a proposed penalty provision is inapplicable. That the computation duplicates earlier demand periods or ignores tax already paid. That reliance on a third-party statement is impermissible without disclosure and opportunity of rebuttal. None of this can be effectively answered if the taxpayer receives only a DRC-01 number and a demand amount without a valid notice setting out the allegations and materials. Earlier High Court support The GSTAT Lucknow ruling does not stand alone. High Courts have consistently recognised the distinction between a statutory show-cause notice and its electronic summary. 1. M/s NKAS Services Private Limited v. State of Jharkhand & Ors. | Jharkhand High Court, W.P.(T) No. 2659 of 2021, decided on 9 February 2022; reported as 2021 SCC OnLine Jhar 1266 / 2021 (10) TMI 880 This is one of the leading decisions on the issue. The taxpayer challenged a notice issued under section 73 and the corresponding DRC-01. The High Court found that the notice did not set out the facts or grounds showing the alleged tax evasion or contravention. The Court held that a summary of a show-cause notice in FORM GST DRC-01 under Rule 142(1) cannot substitute the requirement of a proper show-cause notice. The notice and DRC-01 were quashed, while liberty was granted to the department to initiate fresh proceedings in accordance with law. The principle from NKAS Services is clear: A taxpayer cannot be expected to defend a demand where the SCN does not disclose the factual allegation, the statutory breach, and the basis of the proposed demand. 2. Roushan Kumar Chouhan v. Commissioner of State Tax, Jharkhand | Jharkhand High Court, W.P.(T) No. 1849 of 2022, decided on 3 August 2022; 2022 LiveLaw (Jha) 73 In this case, the Court again considered a notice under section 73, a DRC-01 summary and the consequential DRC-07 summary of order. The Division Bench held that the summary of SCN in FORM GST DRC-01 cannot substitute the proper SCN required under section 73(1). The Court also found fault with imposition of penalty at 100 percent of tax under proceedings stated to be under section 73, observing that such penalty was inconsistent with section 73(9). The impugned SCN, DRC-01 and DRC-07 were quashed. This judgment is useful where the departmental notice suffers not only from lack of particulars but also from an incorrect statutory invocation or penalty computation. 3. Ranjit Dutta v. State of Assam & Ors. | Gauhati High Court, W.P.(C) No. 1953 of 2025, order dated 8 April 2025 The Gauhati High Court held that a summary of SCN in DRC-01 does not fulfil the requirement of a proper SCN under section 73(1). The Court stressed that Rule 142 requires a DRC-01 summary in addition to, and not in substitution of, the statutory show-cause notice. The ruling reinforces the position that the formal SCN, statement of tax determination where applicable, and the final order are primary statutory documents; electronic summaries in DRC-01, DRC-02 and DRC-07 are supplementary. 4. Md. Shoriful Islam v. State of Assam & Ors. | Gauhati High Court, W.P.(C) No. 471 of 2026, decided on 6 February 2026 The Gauhati High Court reportedly reiterated that DRC-01 cannot substitute the SCN required under section 73(1). The Court further emphasised the necessity of authentication by the proper officer and observance of the personal-hearing requirement under section 75(4), where such hearing is requested or where an adverse decision is contemplated. The order was set aside, with liberty for fresh proceedings in accordance with law. Not every error will invalidate a demand Taxpayers should avoid taking an overbroad view of the rule. Every clerical or typographical error in a SCN may not automatically make the entire proceeding void. The test is whether the defect is substantial and whether it has deprived the taxpayer of a genuine and effective opportunity to defend. Type of defect Likely legal significance SCN attached to DRC-01 belongs to a different taxpayer Very serious; may establish that no valid SCN was issued to the actual taxpayer Wrong GSTIN or wrong legal name, with no clarity as to noticee Fundamental defect affecting the identity of the person proceeded against No allegation, no factual basis and only a demand figure Serious violation of section 73/74A requirements and natural justice No relied-upon documents or workable demand computation Strong ground where effective reply is impossible DRC-01 issued but no substantive SCN served DRC-01 alone cannot initiate a valid statutory demand proceeding Notice has correct facts and GSTIN but contains a minor typographical error May be treated as curable if no prejudice is caused SCN lacks hearing opportunity or order is passed without considering reply Separate challenge under section 75 and natural justice principles Wrong penalty provision or penalty beyond statutory limit Challenge on merits as well as incorrect invocation of law The distinction is important. A genuine taxpayer should not rely only on technical objections where the department’s case is otherwise fully known and a detailed merits defence is available. The safer course is generally to raise all procedural objections without prejudice to a detailed reply on facts and law. What every taxpayer should check On receiving FORM GST DRC-01, the taxpayer should not rush to make payment merely because an amount appears on the portal. The following verification should be undertaken immediately: Download the DRC-01 from the portal and retain the original PDF. Download the attached SCN, statement, annexures, computation sheet and relied-upon documents. Verify the taxpayer’s legal name, trade name, GSTIN, address and jurisdiction. Confirm that the SCN is addressed to the same taxpayer shown in DRC-01. Verify whether the tax period in the SCN matches the period in DRC-01. Check whether the sections invoked match the nature of demand. Check whether the document specifies tax, interest and penalty separately. Verify whether the allegations are fact-specific or merely general. Verify whether the demand computation is intelligible and reconciliation is possible. Check whether relevant invoices, GSTR-1, GSTR-3B, GSTR-2B, e-way bill data, supplier details, inspection material or third-party statements are supplied. Verify the date of service and statutory time available for reply. File a written request for relied-upon documents, if they are not provided. Seek personal hearing in writing and preserve proof of such request. Take screenshots of the portal history, notices tab, downloads, ARN/reference number and attachment list. Preserve email alerts, SMS alerts, acknowledgement records and correspondence with the department. Suggested objection in a reply Where the SCN attached to DRC-01 belongs to another person, the taxpayer may take a clear preliminary objection in the following manner: “The noticee submits that the document uploaded/attached with FORM GST DRC-01 is not addressed to the noticee and pertains to a different taxable person. No valid show-cause notice setting out the allegations, factual foundation, statutory provisions, demand computation and relied-upon material has been served upon the noticee. FORM GST DRC-01 is only a summary under Rule 142(1) and cannot substitute the statutory requirement of service of a proper show-cause notice. In the absence of a valid SCN issued to the noticee, the present proceedings are without jurisdiction, contrary to the principles of natural justice, and liable to be dropped. This objection is without prejudice to all rights and contentions of the noticee on facts, law, limitation, computation, interest and penalty.” The reply should be uploaded on the portal within time, even if the taxpayer is simultaneously seeking correction, withdrawal or a fresh SCN. A written objection on record is always preferable to silence. Practical guidance for genuine taxable persons The real value of this line of decisions is not to encourage avoidable litigation. Its value lies in protecting a genuine taxpayer from a demand made without a legally sustainable process. A properly framed SCN benefits both sides: It tells the taxpayer exactly what must be answered. It enables the officer to consider the correct documents and explanation. It reduces mechanical confirmations of demand. It avoids recovery based on defective proceedings. It supports fair, transparent and accountable tax administration. A taxpayer who has correctly discharged GST should be given a fair opportunity to prove compliance. Conversely, where an error has occurred, the taxpayer should know the exact charge and the legal basis before responding or making payment. The law does not permit the statutory safeguard of a show-cause notice to be reduced to a portal-generated demand summary. Conclusion The decision in Saksham Knowledge Services Pvt. Ltd. carries a simple but powerful message: FORM GST DRC-01 is a summary. It is not the statutory show-cause notice itself. Where the attached SCN belongs to another taxpayer, or where no proper SCN disclosing the department’s case has been served, the very foundation of the demand proceeding is open to challenge. The subsequent adjudication order cannot ordinarily cure the absence of a valid notice. Taxpayers and professionals should therefore make it a standard practice to examine the underlying SCN and all attachments immediately on receipt of DRC-01. The demand amount is important—but the validity of the notice is the starting point. ***** Disclaimer: This article is intended for general legal awareness and professional discussion. The applicability of any judicial decision depends upon the facts, tax period, statutory provision invoked, applicable State GST law, notices served and documents available in the individual case. The complete signed copy of the GSTAT order should be verified before relying upon it in litigation or formal representation. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGSTAT Author Info Name: S PRASAD Qualification: Graduate Company: S.PRASAD AND CO Location: Mysuru, Karnataka Articles Published: 161 View full profile → More from S PRASAD GST Analytics-Based Demands: Why Bona Fide Taxpayers Need Fair Adjudication September 21, 2026 Sections 74 & 74A After SC decision in Tata Steel: Will Old GST Demands Be Withdrawn? August 30, 2026 SC Sets Aside Mechanical GST Section 74 Fraud Notices for Lack of Foundational Facts August 29, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Analytics-Based Demands: Why Bona Fide Taxpayers Need Fair Adjudication September 21, 2026 GST Portal Upload as Valid Service Under Section 169: SC to Examine September 21, 2026 Time of Supply under GST: When Does Tax Become Payable September 21, 2026 GST Council and Fiscal Federalism: Who Decides India’s GST Rates September 21, 2026 GST Investigation Response SOP: Why Every Organisation Needs One September 21, 2026 Delhi HC Declines Writ Interference in GST Parallel Proceedings Under Section 6(2)(b) September 21, 2026