Summary: A board resolution may be internally irregular yet still bind the company in its dealings with an outsider, which is the central distinction examined through the doctrine of indoor management originating in Royal British Bank v. Turquand. Using the reported Tata Sons chairmanship dispute as a contemporary fact pattern without taking a position on the validity of the contested resolution, this article distinguishes the internal-validity question from the external-reliance question. It examines constructive notice of a company’s Articles and entrenched provisions under Section 5 of the Companies Act, 2013; the limits of indoor management where forgery, absence of authority or actual notice is involved; the narrower protection contained in Section 176 for defects in a director’s appointment; and the evidentiary importance of minutes under Section 118(6) read with Secretarial Standard SS-1. It further considers the Supreme Court’s earlier examination of Tata Sons’ Articles in the Cyrus Investments litigation and explains why public knowledge of an alleged governance irregularity can materially alter the reliance analysis for future counterparties. The practical lesson is that governance files should separately address what the Articles require, whether internal requirements were followed, what the corporate record establishes and what an outsider knew when entering the transaction. Table of Contents▸ The Outsider Doesn't Read the Minutes: Indoor Management Meets an Entrenched Article Two questions, one set of facts Constructive notice comes first — and the doctrine only starts where it stops Where the assumption breaks down Why Section 176 will not do the work here Section 118(6), SS-1, and why sloppy minutes forfeit the protection they are meant to provide The same fact pattern has been here before What changes the moment the dispute becomes public What belongs in the file Closing thought Show all 10 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); The Outsider Doesn’t Read the Minutes: Indoor Management Meets an Entrenched Article The Turquand rule, Section 118 and Secretarial Standard SS-1, and the question a contested board resolution leaves for everyone the company deals with next Suppose, for a moment, that Tata Trusts is right, and the 17 September resolution reappointing N. Chandrasekaran is eventually held to have breached Article 121A of Tata Sons’ Articles of Association. That finding would settle the question this series covered last week: was the resolution validly passed. It would not settle a second, entirely different question: is a bank that signs a facility agreement with Tata Sons next month, executed under the authority of a chairman whose own reappointment is under a cloud, entitled to treat that agreement as binding regardless? That second question belongs to a doctrine most practitioners can recite but rarely see stress-tested against a live, public, high-profile dispute — the doctrine of indoor management. This piece does not depend on the Tata Trusts’ characterisation being correct. It uses the dispute only as a fact pattern sharp enough to show where the internal-validity question and the external-reliance question genuinely diverge — and why a governance file has to answer both. Two questions, one set of facts A board resolution can be internally irregular and externally binding at the same time. That is not a contradiction; it is the entire point of the rule in Royal British Bank v. Turquand, (1856) 6 E&B 327. There, a company’s directors borrowed money on a bond that its own Articles permitted only pursuant to a shareholder resolution. No such resolution was ever passed. The Court of Exchequer Chamber nonetheless held the company bound: outsiders dealing with a company are entitled to assume that whatever internal steps its constitution requires have in fact been taken, and are not required to verify that assumption before relying on it. The House of Lords endorsed the same principle in Mahony v. East Holyford Mining Co., (1875) LR 7 HL 869, holding a company bound on cheques signed by persons whose appointment as directors was itself irregular — the outsider need not have checked. The doctrine is often taught as a single rule. It is more accurately two rules working in sequence, and the second is the one a Tata Sons-shaped dispute puts under real pressure. Constructive notice comes first — and the doctrine only starts where it stops Before indoor management applies at all, the doctrine of constructive notice applies against the outsider. Anyone dealing with a company is deemed, in law, to have read its Memorandum and Articles of Association, because these are public documents filed with the Registrar. Under Section 5(5) of the Companies Act, 2013, a company that has embedded an entrenchment provision in its Articles — the mechanism, discussed in this series’ previous piece, by which a specific clause can be made harder to alter than an ordinary special resolution — must separately notify the Registrar of that fact. An entrenched Article, in other words, is not buried procedure. It is exactly the kind of provision the outsider is deemed to already know exists. What constructive notice does not do is tell the outsider whether the company actually complied with that Article on a given occasion. That gap — between knowing a rule exists and knowing whether it was followed — is precisely where indoor management operates. The two doctrines are not in tension; they divide the labour. Turquand’s rule was developed, as the judgment itself records, specifically to stop constructive notice from making ordinary commerce with companies impossible: an outsider who had to verify every internal resolution before trusting a company’s own officers would never transact at all. Where the assumption breaks down The doctrine is generous, but not unconditional. Two limits matter here. Forgery and total want of authority are not cured. In Ruben v. Great Fingall Consolidated, [1906] AC 439, a company secretary forged the signatures of two directors on a share certificate under the company’s genuine seal. The House of Lords held the company not bound: indoor management protects an outsider against irregularities in the exercise of an authority the company actually has and the officer might plausibly have been given — it does not manufacture a transaction that never had any corporate reality behind it at all. Ostensible authority has its own boundaries. Freeman & Lockyer v. Buckhurst Park Properties (Mangal) Ltd., [1964] 2 QB 480, laid down the conditions under which a company is bound by an officer acting within apparent, though not actual, authority — a representation by someone with actual authority to make it, relied on in good faith, without notice of any limitation. An outsider who knows, or has been told, that the officer’s authority on this particular matter is contested does not get the benefit of the assumption. The line these two exceptions draw is the line between a procedural irregularity in exercising a power the company genuinely has, and an act that was never within anyone’s power to begin with. A reappointment resolution passed without an entrenched nominee-director consent is, on the face of it, the first kind of defect — the power to appoint a chairman plainly exists; what is contested is whether a precondition to exercising it was satisfied. That puts it, in substance, on the Turquand side of the line, not the Ruben side — provided the outsider has no actual notice of the dispute. Why Section 176 will not do the work here Section 176 of the Companies Act, 2013 provides that acts done by a person as a director are not invalidated merely because a defect in that person’s appointment as director is discovered later. It is a narrower, codified cousin of indoor management, and it is worth naming precisely because it is easy to reach for and does not fit this fact pattern. The defect Tata Trusts allege is not in Mr. Chandrasekaran’s appointment as a director — that is not contested by anyone. It is in a board resolution conferring, or renewing, the office of Chairman. Section 176 protects acts of a director from defects in his directorship; it says nothing about the validity, as against outsiders, of a distinct board decision to designate one director as chairman. Reliance here has to rest on the general law doctrine, not on this specific statutory shortcut — a distinction worth drawing explicitly in any file that cites Section 176 for comfort on a chairmanship dispute rather than a directorship one. Section 118(6), SS-1, and why sloppy minutes forfeit the protection they are meant to provide Section 118(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 provides that minutes kept in accordance with the section are evidence of the proceedings recorded in them. Secretarial Standard SS-1 builds the operational scaffolding around that evidentiary status: it prescribes what a notice of a board meeting must contain, how quorum is to be recorded, how the vote of each director present is to be captured, and — critically for a dispute like this one — how a dissenting director’s vote is to be recorded verbatim rather than summarised away. SS-1 also directs that a director who is interested in a resolution should generally not be reckoned for quorum or participate in the vote on that specific item. None of this is paperwork for its own sake. An outsider’s right to assume regularity is only as good as the record the company itself is prepared to stand behind. Minutes that record the resolution, the names of directors present, and each director’s vote — including a dissent — are what let a bank, a counterparty, or an auditor rely on Section 118(6) without independently investigating whether an entrenched Article’s consent condition was actually satisfied. Minutes that are vague about who voted which way, or silent on a recorded dissent, do the opposite: they leave an outsider unable to point to anything establishing the very regularity indoor management asks them to assume, and leave the company unable to rely on its own record if the dispute is later litigated. The same fact pattern has been here before Tata Sons’ Articles have already been the subject of one Supreme Court judgment turning on exactly this kind of clause. In Tata Sons Private Limited v. Cyrus Investments Pvt. Ltd., 2021 SCC OnLine SC 272, the Court considered Article 121 (read with Article 104B), which confers an affirmative voting right on the Trusts’ nominee directors over specified categories of board decision, and Article 121A. The Shapoorji Pallonji Group had argued that this affirmative-vote mechanism was being used to erode the independent judgment of the wider board; the Supreme Court rejected that characterisation, holding that the challenge to these Articles had been expressly given up during the proceedings and that a shareholder who has consented to Articles cannot later ask a court to rewrite the bargain. The Court’s broader observation — that Tata Sons is a principal investment holding company whose majority shareholding sits with philanthropic trusts, and that its governance architecture reflects that structure rather than an ordinary widely-held company — is part of why entrenched, nominee-specific consent provisions exist there at all. The current dispute is not a new kind of clause; it is the same family of clause, tested from the opposite direction — not “is this Article oppressive” but “was this Article complied with.” What changes the moment the dispute becomes public This is the sharpest practical edge of the doctrine, and the one most files miss. Indoor management protects an outsider who deals with the company without notice of the irregularity. Once Tata Trusts issued a public statement characterising the 17 September resolution as a nullity, any counterparty entering into a fresh transaction with Tata Sons after that date arguably can no longer claim the same innocence that a counterparty who signed before the announcement could. This does not retroactively unwind agreements executed in good faith beforehand — those remain protected on ordinary Turquand principles. But it does mean the protection available to new transactions narrows in real time as the dispute stays in the news, which is not how most people intuitively think a legal doctrine behaves. A governance file compiled today, and one compiled a month from now if the dispute is still unresolved, are answering the reliance question against a different factual backdrop even if nothing else changes. What belongs in the file Do not reach for Section 176 to bless a chairmanship resolution; it protects directorship appointments, not board decisions about office-holding within the board. Treat SS-1’s requirements on quorum, interested-director exclusion, and verbatim recording of dissent as more than a compliance checkbox — they are what makes Section 118(6)’s evidentiary presumption usable at all, for the company and for anyone relying on the company’s own record. Where an entrenched Article’s compliance is contested, distinguish, on the file, transactions entered before the dispute became public from those entered after — the indoor management analysis is not static, and dating the file’s own knowledge matters. Remember that constructive notice and indoor management are not opposites to reconcile but a sequence to apply: first ask what the Articles disclose, then ask what internal compliance the outsider was entitled to assume without checking. Closing thought A board resolution’s internal validity and its external enforceability are governed by different bodies of law, answering different questions, for different audiences. Company law does not make an outsider a co-investigator into a company’s own compliance with its Articles — that would defeat the purpose the rule in Turquand’s case was built to serve a century and a half ago. But the protection the doctrine offers is only as strong as the record the company keeps and the notice the outsider actually has. A minute book built to SS-1’s discipline, and a clear line drawn between what was known before a dispute became public and what is known after, is what lets that protection do its job when it is tested — as, on the facts of a case like this one, it eventually will be. This piece is based on public reporting as of 19 September 2026, on an ongoing and contested dispute, and on the reported text of Tata Sons’ Articles of Association as discussed in prior litigation. It does not take a position on whether the 17 September 2026 resolution was validly passed under those Articles. *** Arnab Gautam Mitra: The author is a Senior Executive in the audit practice at a top CA Firm, Mumbai, with close to fifteen years of experience across statutory audit, internal audit, tax audit, FEMA and ODI compliance and Ind AS implementation, on engagements in banking, mining, real estate and manufacturing. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013Secretarial Standard Author Info Name: Arnab Mitra Qualification: Student - CA/CS/CMA Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 5 View full profile → More from Arnab Mitra Whose Chair Is It Anyway? Companies Act, Articles & Tata Sons Reappointment September 19, 2026 Draft Red Herring Prospectus: Understanding Its IPO Disclosure & Auditor Role September 17, 2026 Pre-IPO Runway: What 18 Months Before DRHP Filing Actually Demand September 11, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law Shareholders Agreement: Meaning, Key Clauses & Importance: Companies Act, 2013 September 26, 2026 NCLT Delhi Sanctions Mawana Foods Amalgamation With Mawana Sugars From 1 April 2026 September 26, 2026 Routine Service Complaints Not Pre-Existing Dispute: NCLT Kochi Admits CIRP September 26, 2026 How to Amend MOA of a Section 8 Company: Is Prior ROC Approval Needed? September 25, 2026 How to Change Name of a Section 8 Company – Steps, Forms and Restrictions September 25, 2026 Section 8 Company Object Change May Affect 12A and 80G Registration September 25, 2026