Summary: The Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN) has introduced a facility to simplify applications for additional GST registrations by taxpayers who already have an active GSTIN under the same PAN. The facility auto-populates existing taxpayer information, reducing repeated data entry when a business seeks another registration in the same State or in a different State. The change is particularly relevant for businesses expanding operations across States because GST registration is State-specific. A business operating in different States may therefore require separate registrations. Within the same State or Union Territory, Section 25(2) of the CGST Act permits separate GST registrations for multiple places of business, subject to prescribed conditions. Rule 11 of the CGST Rules governs such separate registrations and requires a separate application in FORM GST REG-01. TaxGuru has explained the provisions governing separate GST registration for multiple places of business. The new auto-population facility is intended to reduce duplication in the registration process, but it does not alter the substantive conditions for obtaining registration or guarantee approval. Applicants still need to review location-specific information, provide supporting documents for GST registration and complete the prescribed verification and registration process. Businesses using the facility should therefore verify the information carried forward from their existing GSTIN, carefully enter details specific to the new place of business and review the application before submission. Once separate registrations are obtained, each GST registration is treated as that of a distinct person for GST purposes. Table of Contents▸ GSTN Simplifies Additional GST Registration What has changed Who benefits What it does not do How it fits the wider debate What businesses should do How To Register Before you start Steps Things to keep in mind Show all 10 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); GSTN Simplifies Additional GST Registration Businesses with an active GSTIN can now skip re-entering details they have already given when they apply for another registration under the same PAN. The Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN) has introduced a facility meant to make it easier for existing taxpayers to obtain an additional GST registration. The facility auto-populates details for businesses that already hold an active GSTIN under the same PAN, and GSTN announced it on September 10, 2026. What has changed Until now, a taxpayer adding a registration had to fill in much of the application again, even though the portal already held most of the information. The new facility works for a proposed registration in the same State or in a different State. Existing details are pre-filled, so the applicant has less to type and less to get wrong. GSTN has said it wants to offer less data entry, less time and more convenience. Who benefits The measure is expected to help businesses expanding into another State, as well as those seeking an additional registration in the same State, subject to the applicable provisions of GST law. The need for multiple registrations comes from how GST is designed. Registration is PAN-based but State-specific, so a business with branches in several States must take a separate registration for each. Each State registration is treated as its own tax unit. That makes onboarding a new State a recurring task for growing businesses, and pre-filled data removes much of the repeated effort. Separate registrations can also be useful within one State. A business is not required to take more than one registration for several branches in the same State, but it may choose to apply for separate registrations for multiple places of business within the same State or Union Territory. The new facility should make that choice less burdensome too. What it does not do The facility is a convenience feature, not a shortcut around scrutiny. It does not automatically grant GST registration. Applications still go through the usual process, and eligibility and the underlying legal requirements are unchanged. The registration application and supporting documents may still be scrutinised by the proper officer. TaxGuru has explained the instructions governing processing and scrutiny of GST registration applications, including verification of the principal place of business and supporting documents. GSTN has also built an alert mechanism into the facility. The announcement coverage I found does not say exactly what the alerts flag, so businesses should check GSTN’s advisory on the GST portal before relying on them. How it fits the wider debate The change comes as policymakers discuss deeper reform. One proposal under discussion would replace State-by-State registration with a single, unified PAN-based registration across the country. The new facility does not do that. Separate State registrations, with their own returns and compliance, remain. Large enterprises with a pan-India presence carry a heavy compliance load under the current model. The auto-population feature eases only the application step, which is a smaller change but one taxpayers will notice. What businesses should do Check that the details on your existing GSTIN are accurate before applying, since they will carry over into the new application. Review the pre-filled data instead of assuming it is right, especially fields that differ by State or location, such as the address and the business activity at that location. Keep the prescribed documents required for GST registration ready before starting the application. Read GSTN’s official advisory for the exact steps and the alert behaviour. How To Register Before you start Keep your existing GSTIN active, and make sure your login details work. Gather documents for the new place of business. The documents depend upon whether the premises are owned, rented, leased, shared or used with the owner’s consent. TaxGuru has explained the proof of principal place of business required for GST registration. Keep the authorised signatory’s details and prescribed supporting documents ready. A detailed list of documents required for new GST registration is available for reference. Have a mobile number and email ready for OTP verification. These should be the ones you want linked to the new registration. Steps 1. Log in to the GST portal (gst.gov.in) with your existing GSTIN credentials. 2. Go to Services > Registration and look for the option to apply for an additional registration under your PAN. This is where the new facility should pre-fill your details. If you don’t see it, use the New Registration route instead. TaxGuru has separately explained the GST registration process. 3. Select the State or Union Territory and the district where you want the new registration. 4. Review the pre-filled details (business name, constitution, promoters and so on) and correct anything that doesn’t apply to the new location. 5. Add the new place of business: the address, the nature of business activity there, and the goods or services you will supply from it. 6. Upload the supporting documents. The application is made through FORM GST REG-01, which contains the relevant registration particulars and document requirements. 7. Verify the application with an OTP or digital signature (DSC or EVC, depending on your entity type), then submit. You will get an ARN (application reference number) to track it. 8. Wait for processing. The proper officer examines the application and supporting documents in accordance with the prescribed registration procedure. If the application is approved, the registration certificate is issued in FORM GST REG-06. Where deficiencies or issues arise, the prescribed registration proceedings apply. Things to keep in mind Auto-population only saves typing. It does not guarantee approval. The new GSTIN for another State or Union Territory will contain the relevant State code while continuing to be based on the same PAN. Separate registrations carry separate GST compliance obligations, including applicable return-filing requirements. Where separate registrations are obtained under the same PAN, the implications of the distinct person concept under Section 25 of the CGST Act should also be considered for transactions between such registrations. GST registration itself does not carry a government registration fee on the GST portal. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Registration Author Info Name: CA GOVIND AGRAWAL Qualification: CA in Practice Company: AGRAWAL NAYAN & ASSOCIATES Location: Noida, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 9 View full profile → More from CA GOVIND AGRAWAL Resolving Two-Time PAN Modification Barrier in TDS Returns: Nominal Value Strategy October 4, 2026 Critical Finance Terms Every Startup Founder Must Know January 10, 2026 Undertaking & Submission for Refund of Accumulated ITC under Inverted Duty Structure January 6, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Longer Route Alone Cannot Trigger Section 129 GST Penalty: GSTAT Varanasi October 4, 2026 Reverse Charge under GST: Goods, Services, Notifications and Tax Liability October 4, 2026 One Master TRN for Multiple States/UTs: Applicability, Procedure, GSTIN & Compliance October 4, 2026 Mixed Supply Under GST: Highest Tax Rate Rule, Examples & DOMS Industries Ruling October 4, 2026 GST Council: Structure, Voting, Recommendations & Role in Fiscal Federalism October 3, 2026 GST Search Authorisation Must Clearly Specify Power Exercised Under Section 67: Madras HC October 3, 2026