Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Lupin Limited, a prominent global pharmaceutical company based in Mumbai, India, has announced that it has received approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) for its Abbreviated New Drug Application (ANDA) for Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion USP. This approval pertains to a 1 mg/0.5 mL single-dose prefilled syringe, which is now recognised as bioequivalent to the reference listed drug from International Medication Systems, Limited. The Phytonadione Injectable Emulsion is indicated for the treatment and prophylaxis of hypoprothrombinemia, a condition characterised by low blood clotting, and vitamin K deficiency. This approval marks a significant milestone for Lupin, as the product is set to enter a market with estimated annual sales of USD 52.3 million in the United States, according to IQVIA data as of August 2026. Lupin Limited, with a robust presence in over 100 markets globally, continues to solidify its position as a leader in the pharmaceutical industry. The company’s diverse portfolio includes generics, complex generics, specialty medicines, and biosimilars. Lupin’s strategic focus on core therapeutic areas such as cardiovascular, respiratory, diabetes, gastrointestinal, and women’s health has reinforced its leadership in both the U.S. and Indian markets. The company operates 15 manufacturing facilities and six research centres, supported by a workforce of over 26,000 professionals. The approval from the U.S. FDA is expected to further enhance Lupin’s market position and contribute to its growth strategy. Analysts view this development as a positive step for Lupin, aligning with its ongoing efforts to expand its product offerings and strengthen its footprint in the U.S. pharmaceutical market. The company’s commitment to sustainability and innovation continues to drive its business strategy, ensuring a competitive edge in the global healthcare ecosystem. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under NSE Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business US Suspends Infosys, TCS, Wipro, HCL and Cognizant From Green Card Programme Amid Visa Fraud Allegations October 8, 2026 JSW Steel reports 7.27 million tonnes of crude steel production in Q2 FY27 October 8, 2026 TCS reports robust Q2 growth with strategic partnerships and AI revenue boost October 8, 2026 TP Solar achieves significant production milestones in Q2 FY27 October 8, 2026 Air India enhances global travel with Tata Communications EasyRoam SIM October 8, 2026 Tata Steel Reports Strong Production and Delivery Growth in 2QFY2027 October 7, 2026