#AD India has never lacked investors. From equities and mutual funds to gold, fixed deposits and property, investing has long been part of the financial conversation across the country. What has changed is where Indian traders are looking for opportunities. A growing number are no longer watching only the Indian market. US stocks, global indices, gold, oil, currencies and other international markets are increasingly part of the same daily watchlist. OneTwoMarkets says this change has helped its community in India grow beyond 150,000 traders. The number is significant, but numbers alone do not explain why people choose a trading platform. For that, it is more useful to look at what users actually discuss after opening an account, from a review onetwomarkets to experiences with withdrawals, customer support, spreads, platform usability, account verification and communication with the company. That is where the OneTwoMarkets story in India becomes more interesting. Table of Contents▸ More Than a Number: What Are OneTwoMarkets Users Actually Saying? 1. Samur Instash: Looking at the Experience After Approximately One Year 2. Anton: Low Spreads Without Constant Sales Calls 3. Gideon Angkat: Withdrawal and Local-Language Support 4. Albert Sentryu: A Positive Review That Also Mentions an AML Problem 5. Matthew Jewrey: Support Was What Made the Difference What Do These 5 Reviews Have in Common? The Indian App Store Tells a Similar Story Why Global Trading Is Becoming More Relevant to Indian Investors Is OneTwoMarkets Regulated? More Than 500,000 Users Worldwide So Why Are 150,000 Indian Traders Choosing OneTwoMarkets? Show all 12 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); More Than a Number: What Are OneTwoMarkets Users Actually Saying? At the time of writing, OneTwoMarkets’ review page displays a 4.8 out of 5 rating from 245 reviews. Of those, 210 are five-star reviews, 29 are four-star reviews and six are three-star reviews. Rather than looking only at the overall score, we examined some of the more detailed reviews individually. 1. Samur Instash: Looking at the Experience After Approximately One Year Samur Instash offers a different perspective because his review describes approximately a year of experience with OneTwoMarkets. He discusses trading costs and commissions, deposits and withdrawals and his interactions with an account manager. He also states that he had deposited around $15,000 since 2025 and reported approximately $4,000 in profit. The most interesting part of this review is not actually the profit figure. His comments about risk management suggest that his relationship with the account manager was not simply focused on encouraging larger trades. According to Samur, he was repeatedly reminded to control risk rather than expose the entire account to aggressive positions. Individual trading results should never be interpreted as a prediction of what another client will achieve. Nevertheless, the review provides insight into the type of ongoing assistance some OneTwoMarkets customers say they receive. 2. Anton: Low Spreads Without Constant Sales Calls Anton focuses on something experienced traders often pay considerable attention to: trading conditions. His review discusses an account holding approximately $55,000 and trading with spreads he describes as close to zero. He also highlights withdrawals and round-the-clock support. However, another detail stands out. Anton says he appreciates that he is not constantly receiving telephone calls from the company. Instead, he describes receiving market outlook PDFs and trading updates, while contacting support directly when he needs assistance. For investors who have dealt with highly aggressive sales environments before, that distinction can matter. 3. Gideon Angkat: Withdrawal and Local-Language Support Gideon’s experience focuses largely on two areas: assistance from his adviser and withdrawal processing. He says that he received his withdrawal quickly and reports achieving approximately 15% profit over six months. He also highlights support in his own language and access to chat assistance. For India, this point is particularly relevant. International-market access becomes much easier to use when traders can communicate clearly with support instead of having to navigate every account or payment issue alone, making global market access more practical for users dealing with different currencies, regions and trading requirements. 4. Albert Sentryu: A Positive Review That Also Mentions an AML Problem Not every useful review needs to describe a completely frictionless experience. Albert says his account was temporarily blocked for an AML verification process. The company had sent him an email, but he had not noticed it, and he says he would have preferred receiving a telephone call. Despite that inconvenience, he says he remained highly satisfied with the platform, support and particularly the withdrawal process, reporting withdrawals arriving within a maximum of around three days in his experience. This is actually one of the more useful reviews for prospective clients. Financial platforms have verification and anti-money-laundering procedures, and those controls can occasionally create inconvenience. What matters is understanding why a request or restriction occurred and whether it can be resolved. 5. Matthew Jewrey: Support Was What Made the Difference Matthew says he originally came across the platform while looking for a way to move between US dollars and euros, but what stood out to him was the customer-support experience. His review is shorter than some of the others, but it reinforces a pattern visible throughout the feedback: customer assistance is repeatedly mentioned alongside trading and withdrawals. What Do These 5 Reviews Have in Common? Looking across these experiences, several themes appear repeatedly. Withdrawals are one of the most frequently discussed subjects. Multiple reviewers describe receiving funds relatively quickly in maximum 3 days Support appears just as frequently. Clients discuss telephone assistance, chat support, advisers and account managers. Trading conditions also appear in the more detailed reviews, including comments about spreads, commissions, educational material and market information. Finally, some reviewers specifically mention what they did not experience: excessive calls or constant pressure to deposit. These are arguably more informative indicators than a simple five-star rating because they describe specific parts of the customer experience. The Indian App Store Tells a Similar Story There is also India-specific feedback and it comes from App Store The OneTwoMarkets application is available through Apple’s Indian App Store. As of September 2026, the listing displays 5.0 out of 5 from 25 ratings. Recent Indian App Store reviews discuss monitoring positions through the mobile application and withdrawal experiences. That matters because these are reviews appearing specifically on the Indian version of Apple’s store rather than feedback gathered from a completely different market. Why Global Trading Is Becoming More Relevant to Indian Investors The appeal of platforms such as OneTwoMarkets is also connected to a broader change in investor behaviour. An Indian trader today can watch Nvidia, Apple or Tesla in the United States, gold in the international commodities market, European indices and major currencies alongside Indian stocks. That creates a substantially wider investment universe. It does not mean international assets will outperform Indian assets, nor does diversification eliminate risk. It simply means that an investor no longer has to depend on one market for every potential opportunity. And this is one reason platforms providing access to multiple global markets are gaining visibility among Indian retail traders. Is OneTwoMarkets Regulated? Yes, OneTwoMarkets is a regulated and authorised Financial Services Provider regulated by South Africa’s Financial Sector Conduct Authority under FSP No. 46886, registration number 2015/331240/07. More Than 500,000 Users Worldwide India is also only one part of a considerably larger OneTwoMarkets community. In June 2026, OneTwoMarkets announced that it had surpassed 500,000 active users globally. The figure was released by the company through a GlobeNewswire announcement. According to OneTwoMarkets, more than 150,000 of its traders are now in India. That would make India one of the important markets within the platform’s international expansion. So Why Are 150,000 Indian Traders Choosing OneTwoMarkets? There is probably no single reason. For one trader it may be access to international markets. For another it may be low trading costs. Someone else may value support, mobile access or the ability to communicate with an account manager. And for many people, the decisive moment may come only after they complete their first successful withdrawal. What the reviews show is that OneTwoMarkets is being judged not simply on advertising promises but on experiences occurring after registration: deposits, trades, conversations with support, compliance checks and withdrawals. With a 4.8/5 rating from 245 reviews , 5.0/5 from 25 ratings on Apple’s Indian App Store, a reported global community exceeding 500,000 users and, according to the company, more than 150,000 traders in India, OneTwoMarkets has established a noticeable presence among Indian traders in 2026. Risk Warning: Trading financial instruments involves substantial risk and can result in the loss of invested capital. Past or individual trading results mentioned in customer reviews do not guarantee future performance. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Mutual Fund Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance No UPI Charges for Users and Limited MDR for Merchants: Finance Ministry September 17, 2026 IFSCA Fund Management Second Amendment Regulations 2026: Key Amendments September 17, 2026 Nagpur Chamber Seeks Free UPI Until Wider Digital Rupee Adoption September 17, 2026 Government Allows Charges on UPI Payments Exceeding ₹2,000 September 16, 2026 Discretionary vs Non-Discretionary PMS: How Much Control Do You Keep? September 15, 2026 Silver: A Roller Coaster Ride – Rising in Crisis, Falling on Policy September 12, 2026