Summary: GST exemptions are an important policy tool, but their economic effect can differ substantially from the headline removal of tax. The distinction between an exempt supply and a zero-rated supply is particularly important because an ordinary exemption generally removes output GST while restricting the supplier’s ability to claim Input Tax Credit (ITC), potentially embedding tax costs into prices. This issue became significant after the 56th GST Council’s September 2025 reforms and Notification No. 16/2025-Central Tax (Rate), which exempted specified individual life and health insurance services from GST from 22 September 2025. The article examines the statutory exemption powers under Section 11 of the CGST Act and Section 6 of the IGST Act, together with the ITC reversal implications under Section 18(4) and Rule 44. It also traces Supreme Court jurisprudence governing interpretation of exemptions, including Sun Export Corporation, Dilip Kumar & Co., Ambay Cements, Hari Chand Shri Gopal, Mother Superior Adoration Convent and Wood Papers. The practical discussion considers insurance pricing, blocked ITC, transition compliance and anti-profiteering enforcement. The Supreme Court’s decision in State of Karnataka v. Taghar Vasudeva Ambrish provides a second illustration of exemption disputes, showing how the scope and purpose of apparently simple exemption entries can generate prolonged litigation. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Legal Framework The statutory source of the power How courts read exemption notifications Contemporary and Practical Analysis The insurance exemption in practice A second illustration: the hostel accommodation dispute Critical Discussion Conclusion and Suggestions Bibliography Statutes and Rules Notifications Table of Cases Reports and Other Sources Show all 14 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction If the government removes GST from your insurance premium, does your bill drop by exactly 18%? For most policyholders, the honest answer is probably not — and the reason sits in one technical distinction that Indirect Tax law has argued over since the Goods and Services Tax was introduced in July 2017. GST was conceived as a value-added tax intended to replace multiple central and state indirect taxes and reduce the cascading of taxation. Its design emphasized a broad tax base, while retaining exemptions where considerations of public interest, social policy and administrative feasibility warranted them. In practice, exemptions have remained indispensable. They are how the state balances revenue collection against social equity, sectoral support, and administrative feasibility and how, periodically, it delivers headline-grabbing “relief” to taxpayers. The clearest recent example is the decision of the 56th GST Council, which met in New Delhi on 3 September 2025 under Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as part of the “next-generation GST reforms” (popularly “GST 2.0”). Among its most published outcomes was the exemption of GST on individual life and health insurance premiums, implemented through Notification No. 16/2025-Central Tax (Rate) dated 17th September 2025 and effective from 22nd September 2025. It was announced, and largely received, as straightforward consumer relief: premiums that carried an 18% tax would now carry none. The reality is more layered. A GST exemption is not the same thing as a zero-rated supply. Zero-rating (as with exports) removes the output tax while preserving the supplier’s right to claim Input Tax Credit (ITC) on their inputs. An ordinary exemption does neither cleanly — it removes the output tax but simultaneously blocks the supplier’s ITC, because credit can only be set off against taxable output. That single mechanical difference is the hinge on which this entire blog turns: it explains why “GST-free” insurance premiums may not fall by a clean 18%, and it is the lens through which this piece examines the statutory basis for exemptions, the judicial doctrine that governs how they are read, and the practical and policy tensions the 2025 insurance exemption has exposed. Legal Framework The statutory source of the power The power to grant a GST exemption is a delegated legislative power, not administrative discretion. Section 11(1) of the CGST Act, 2017 permits the Central Government, acting on the recommendation of the GST Council, to exempt goods or services “either absolutely or subject to such conditions as may be specified,” where necessary in the public interest, by notification. Section 11(2) allows a narrower, case-specific route — a special order exempting a particular supply in exceptional circumstances, rather than a general notification. Section 6 of the IGST Act, 2017 mirrors this power for inter-State supplies. Two sub-points matter for how exemptions actually function. First, the explanation to Section 11 confirms that where an exemption is granted absolutely — unconditionally — the supplier cannot collect tax beyond the effective rate; if that effective rate is nil, nothing may be charged at all. This is precisely the position insurers were placed in from 22 September 2025: the individual insurance exemption is unconditional, so there is no room to continue charging GST on affected policies. Second, Section 11(3) allows the Government to insert a clarificatory explanation to an existing notification within one year of its issue, and that explanation is deemed to have applied from the notification’s original date — giving the executive meaningful retrospective latitude to narrow or widen an exemption’s scope after the fact. The day-to-day exemption landscape is built on omnibus notifications — principally Notification No. 2/2017-Central Tax (Rate) for goods and No. 12/2017-Central Tax (Rate) for services — supplemented and amended by further notifications as the Council recommends changes. The insurance exemption is simply the newest, and among the most consequential, additions to this body of subordinate legislation. How courts read exemption notifications Because an exemption is a concession rather than a charge, courts have developed an interpretive approach distinct from how they read the charging sections of a tax statute — and that approach has itself evolved through a sequence of Supreme Court decisions worth tracing in order. For two decades, the governing authority was Sun Export Corporation v. Collector of Customs, (1997) 6 SCC 564, which held that ambiguity in an exemption notification, like ambiguity in a charging provision, should be resolved in the assessee’s favour. That position was decisively overturned by a five-judge Constitution Bench in Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v. Dilip Kumar & Co., (2018) 9 SCC 1, decided on 30 July 2018. The Court held that while ambiguity in a charging provision must still favour the assessee, the same generosity does not extend to an exemption notification: there, the burden lies on the assessee to show unambiguous entitlement, and any residual ambiguity must be read in favour of Revenue. Dilip Kumar remains the controlling authority today, and it is the reason tax administrators can — and regularly do — construe the boundaries of an exemption narrowly against the taxpayer claiming it. Strict construction at the threshold does not mean every condition attached to an exemption is treated identically, however. State of Jharkhand v. Ambay Cements, (2005) 1 SCC 368, held that conditions precedent to an exemption are substantive requirements that must be fully satisfied, not mere formalities that can be waived on equitable grounds. CCE v. Hari Chand Shri Gopal, (2011) 1 SCC 236, a Constitution Bench decision, refined this further and is often mischaracterised as a simple “substantive conditions are strict, procedural conditions allow substantial compliance” rule. It is not quite that clean: the Court in that case actually rejected an assessee’s plea of “substantial compliance” with a procedural record-keeping requirement, holding it mandatory precisely because it existed to prevent diversion of exempted goods to unintended use. The real principle, then, is that whether a condition is mandatory or merely directory turns on its underlying purpose and the consequences of non-compliance — not on a neat label of “substance” versus “procedure.” Finally, Government of Kerala v. Mother Superior Adoration Convent, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 151, decided on 1 March 2021, tempered the strict-construction trend for a particular category of exemption. The Bench held that while exemptions are generally to be construed strictly, beneficial exemptions — those designed to encourage or promote a socially valuable activity — should be read purposively, and a literal, formalistic interpretation should be avoided, drawing on the older authority of Union of India v. Wood Papers Ltd., (1990) 4 SCC 256. Together, these cases show Indian exemption doctrine sitting at the intersection of fiscal discipline (protecting revenue against overbroad claims) and purposive equity (ensuring an exemption’s intended beneficiaries are not defeated by technicalities). Contemporary and Practical Analysis The insurance exemption in practice The stated rationale for exempting individual health and life insurance was straightforward: India’s insurance penetration is low relative to global averages, and an 18% tax on premiums was widely criticised as treating a financial-protection necessity like a luxury good, undermining the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India’s “Insurance for All by 2047” goal. It is worth noting precisely what the exemption covers: it applies only to individual policies — including family floater and senior-citizen health plans, and term, ULIP and endowment life policies, along with their reinsurance — while employer-sponsored group health and life policies continue to attract 18% GST. This individual/group line, drawn cleanly on paper, is likely to generate its own classification disputes wherever a product sits somewhere between the two — corporate-facilitated individual policies, for instance, or hybrid group-individual offerings. The practical complication for policyholders lies exactly in the exemption/zero-rating distinction from Part I. Because the exemption is unconditional rather than a zero-rating, insurers lose the right to claim ITC on GST paid on their own inputs — reinsurance costs, distribution and commission expenses, IT systems, and other taxable procurements that go into running an insurance business. That input tax does not disappear; it becomes an embedded cost that insurers must either absorb or price into the base premium before the “no GST” headline applies. Industry estimates circulating around the reform suggested the loss of ITC could realistically limit the net saving to policyholders to somewhere in the range of 10–15%, rather than the full 18% suggested by simply removing the tax line from an invoice. There is also a transitional compliance dimension that is easy to overlook in the “relief” framing. Under Section 18(4) of the CGST Act, read with Rule 44 of the CGST Rules, a registered person whose supply becomes wholly exempt must reverse the ITC previously claimed on inputs held in stock, on inputs embedded in semi-finished or finished goods, and on capital goods — the last of these computed net of 5% depreciation per quarter of prior use, effectively a five-year write-off period. For insurers, this meant a real, immediate compliance exercise sitting behind the September 2025 changeover, not a costless flip of a rate code. Perhaps the most consequential gap, however, is regulatory rather than technical. Section 171 of the CGST Act requires that the benefit of a rate reduction or an exemption be passed on to the consumer through a commensurate price reduction, and historically this was policed by the National Anti-Profiteering Authority, later transferred to the Competition Commission of India (December 2022), and then to the Principal Bench of the GST Appellate Tribunal (from 1 October 2024). Critically, the Government fixed 1 April 2025 as the sunset date beyond which no new anti-profiteering complaints would be accepted — a decision taken months before the insurance exemption came into force. Pending cases filed before that date continue to be adjudicated by GSTAT (orders were still being issued as recently as May 2026), but for a person renewing their health cover after 22 September 2025 and finding a smaller-than-expected saving, the ordinary statutory mechanism for testing whether the benefit was properly passed on was not available for a fresh complaint. Reports around the same Council meeting suggested the government was weighing a limited revival of anti-profiteering oversight specifically for the new rate changes, but no confirmed revival has been traced as of the most recent available reporting — an open question worth checking closer to any submission date, given how quickly this is moving. A second illustration: the hostel accommodation dispute The insurance case is not an isolated instance of exemption-entry ambiguity. State of Karnataka v. Taghar Vasudeva Ambrish, 2025 INSC 1380, decided by the Supreme Court on 4 December 2025, resolved a six-year dispute over whether leasing a residential property to a company that sub-let it as long-term hostel accommodation for students and working professionals fell within the “renting of residential dwelling for use as residence” exemption under Entry 13 of Notification No. 9/2017-Integrated Tax (Rate). The Authority for Advance Ruling and the Appellate Authority for Advance Ruling both denied the exemption in 2019–2020, reasoning that a corporate lessee could not itself “reside” in the property; the Karnataka High Court reversed that view in 2022; and the Supreme Court finally affirmed the exemption in December 2025, holding that the dwelling’s residential character was not lost merely because a corporate intermediary sub-let it for long-term residential use by individuals. The case is a useful companion to the insurance exemption: it shows that even a short, seemingly self-explanatory exemption entry can take the better part of a decade to settle definitively — though it also shows the system does eventually resolve such disputes, and in the taxpayer’s favour. Critical Discussion Several structural tensions emerge from placing these two examples side by side. Exemption versus zero-rating as a design choice. For a sector like insurance, with substantial taxable input costs, the choice to exempt rather than zero-rate the output is a meaningful policy decision with real consequences, not a technical footnote. Zero-rating would have preserved the ITC chain and likely delivered a closer-to-full 18% saving to policyholders, at greater cost to the exchequer. Exemption was cheaper for the government and delivered a smaller, less transparent benefit to consumers — a trade-off rarely made explicit in the public framing of “GST-free insurance.” Litigation persists despite Dilip Kumar. The stricter interpretive standard set in 2018 was meant to bring certainty, yet the Taghar Vasudeva Ambrish saga shows classification disputes over exemption entries continuing to run for years afterward, and the individual/group boundary freshly drawn in the insurance notification is a plausible source of the next round of such disputes. Strict construction narrows how ambiguity is resolved once a case reaches a court or tribunal; it does not prevent imprecise drafting from generating the dispute in the first place. The mandatory/directory line is less predictable than it looks. Hari Chand Shri Gopal‘s purpose-driven test for whether a condition is mandatory or merely directory gives courts flexibility to look past formal drafting, but it also means taxpayers cannot always predict, from the text of a notification alone, which conditions will be treated as strict prerequisites and which will not. A relief measure rolled out without its usual safeguard. The most striking finding from this research is the timing mismatch between the Section 171 sunset (1 April 2025) and the insurance exemption’s effective date (22 September 2025). A reform explicitly marketed as consumer relief arrived at a moment when the standard statutory tool for verifying that the relief actually reached consumers had just been closed to new complaints. Whether or not this was intentional, it is a live illustration of how administrative and policy timelines within the same tax system can work against each other. Delegated legislation and business certainty. Because exemptions are made and modified by executive notification rather than parliamentary amendment, and because Section 11(3) permits retrospective clarification within a year, businesses that plan around a given exemption’s scope operate with less certainty than the “relief” narrative suggests. Base erosion versus distributional equity. GST’s founding philosophy favoured a broad base with minimal exemptions. Each additional exemption, however individually justified on equity grounds, narrows that base and pushes revenue reliance elsewhere. The insurance exemption is defensible as correcting a genuine affordability problem in a welfare-relevant sector; it is also one more entry in a growing list of carve-outs that cumulatively move GST further from its original design. Conclusion and Suggestions GST exemptions occupy a genuinely uneasy position in India’s indirect tax architecture: they are simultaneously an instrument of social equity and a source of structural inefficiency, interpretive litigation, and — as this analysis has shown — enforcement gaps. The 2025 insurance exemption illustrates the full range of that tension in miniature. It responds to a real affordability problem in a sector the government has explicitly prioritised; its benefit to consumers is diluted by the ITC-blocking effect that distinguishes an exemption from a zero-rated supply; its transition imposed genuine compliance work on insurers under Section 18(4) and Rule 44; its individual/group boundary is a plausible seed for future classification disputes of the kind that took Taghar Vasudeva Ambrish six years to resolve; and it arrived just after the ordinary anti-profiteering safety net had been closed to new complaints. On this basis, five recommendations follow: 1. Prefer zero-rating over exemption for welfare-oriented sectors with substantial input tax costs, so the ITC chain is preserved and relief reaches the end consumer more completely — insurance being a strong candidate for reconsideration on this basis. 2. Restore or replace anti-profiteering oversight before, not after, major new exemptions take effect. The Section 171 sunset and the insurance exemption’s effective date should not have been allowed to pass each other without a live enforcement mechanism in place; any future exemption of comparable scale should be paired with an active verification route from day one. 3. Draft exemption entries with the boundary cases in mind — the individual/group insurance line and the “who resides in the property” question in Taghar Vasudeva Ambrish both show that ambiguity at the margins, not the core case, is what generates years of litigation. 4. Introduce periodic sunset-and-review cycles for exemption entries generally, so that exemptions are reassessed against current revenue and equity data rather than persisting by administrative inertia. 5. Pair every new exemption notification with transition guidance addressing Section 18(4)/Rule 44 ITC reversal, stock-in-hand treatment, and re-pricing obligations, reducing the compliance uncertainty that fell on insurers in September 2025. Exemptions are not going away — the Dilip Kumar doctrine governs how they are read, not whether they exist. The real question this blog has tried to answer is not whether GST should have exemptions, but whether “relief for taxpayers” survives the mechanics of ITC, the timing of enforcement, and the drafting of the notification itself — because, as the insurance case shows, the headline and the arithmetic do not always agree. Bibliography Statutes and Rules Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Act No. 12 of 2017), ss. 11, 18(4), 171. Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (Act No. 13 of 2017), s. 6. Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, r. 44. Notifications Notification No. 2/2017-Central Tax (Rate), dated 28 June 2017 (Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue). Notification No. 12/2017-Central Tax (Rate), dated 28 June 2017 (Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue). Notification No. 9/2017-Integrated Tax (Rate), dated 28 June 2017 (Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue). Notification No. 16/2025-Central Tax (Rate), G.S.R. 666(E), dated 17 September 2025, effective 22 September 2025 (Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue), available at [https://taxo.online/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/16-2025-CTR-eng.pdf](https://taxo.online/wp-content/uploads/2025/09/16-2025-CTR-eng.pdf). Table of Cases CCE v. Hari Chand Shri Gopal, (2011) 1 SCC 236 (Constitution Bench). Commissioner of Customs (Import), Mumbai v. Dilip Kumar & Co., (2018) 9 SCC 1 : 2018 INSC 646 (Constitution Bench, decided 30 July 2018). Government of Kerala v. Mother Superior Adoration Convent, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 151 (decided 1 March 2021). State of Jharkhand v. Ambay Cements, (2005) 1 SCC 368. State of Karnataka v. Taghar Vasudeva Ambrish, 2025 INSC 1380 : [2025] 12 SCR 366 (decided 4 December 2025). Sun Export Corporation v. Collector of Customs, (1997) 6 SCC 564. Union of India v. Wood Papers Ltd., (1990) 4 SCC 256. Reports and Other Sources GST Council, Recommendations of the 56th GST Council Meeting, New Delhi, 3 September 2025 (Ministry of Finance, Press Information Bureau). Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India, “Insurance for All by 2047” (policy goal, IRDAI). Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: Saswat Saidutta Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Location: Punjab Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Saswat Saidutta Taxation of Traders in India: Structural Framework, Judicial Interpretation & Compliance Realities February 21, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Blocked Credits under GST: Why Some Business Expenses Do Not Qualify for ITC September 24, 2026 GST Audit Adjudication, Proper Officer Jurisdiction and Hearing Rights September 23, 2026 Fresh Psyllium Seeds Taxable at 5% GST, Not Exempt: Rajasthan AAR September 23, 2026 Rajasthan AAR Classifies Rubberised Cork Sheets Under HSN 45041010 at 5% GST September 23, 2026 Rajasthan AAR Rejects GTA Exemption Application as Issue Already Pending and Decided September 23, 2026 GST Payable on Mining Royalty by Short-Term Permit Holder: Rajasthan AAR September 23, 2026