UPI MDR Raises Economic Question of Who Ultimately Bears Merchant Cost Summary: From 15 October 2026, MDR (Merchant Discount Rate) will apply to specified merchant UPI transactions above ₹2,000, with a standard MDR of 0.4% subject to a maximum of ₹300 per transaction. While the MDR is charged to the merchant rather than directly to the customer, the article examines the distinction between legal incidence and economic incidence to consider who ultimately bears this additional cost. A merchant facing MDR may absorb the cost through lower margins, reduce discounts, increase selling prices or use a combination of these responses. The extent to which the cost reaches consumers depends on competition, pricing power and customer sensitivity and is described through the economic concept of cost pass-through. The article draws an analogy with Mahatma Gandhi’s 1930 Salt March, while expressly recognising the very different scale, purpose and context, to illustrate how a cost imposed within a supply chain can ultimately affect consumers. It emphasises that economics does not imply that the entire MDR must necessarily be passed on to customers, but equally, charging the merchant does not establish that consumers will remain unaffected. The central question is therefore not merely who is formally charged MDR, but how the cost is ultimately distributed between merchants and consumers after the market responds. Table of Contents▸ Introduction What is changing with UPI? What happens next? Think back to the Salt Tax Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction In 1930, Mahatma Gandhi chose something remarkably ordinary to challenge the British Empire: salt. Why salt? Because everyone needed it. Rich or poor, every household consumed it. The British government controlled the production and sale of salt and imposed a tax on it, making an everyday necessity more expensive. Gandhi’s response was the historic Dandi March, culminating in his deliberate breaking of the Salt Law by making salt from seawater. The issue was simple enough for everyone to understand: when a cost is imposed somewhere in the chain, who ultimately bears it? Almost a century later, an interesting economic question arises again. This time around UPI. What is changing with UPI? From 15 October 2026, MDR (Merchant Discount Rate) will apply to specified merchant UPI transactions above ₹2,000. The standard MDR is 0.4%, subject to a maximum of ₹300 per transaction. So, a ₹10,000 payment could mean ₹40 of MDR for the merchant, while a ₹75,000 or ₹1 lakh transaction would be capped at ₹300. However, person-to-person payments remain free, merchant payments up to ₹2,000 remain free, and eligible small merchants receiving up to ₹1 lakh per month through UPI QR are exempt. Certain essential-service categories have a separate flat ₹5 charge on qualifying transactions. The important point is: the MDR is charged to the merchant, not directly to the customer. And this is where the economic question begins. “The merchant pays, so the consumer is unaffected?” sounds reasonable? Suppose a merchant sells a product for ₹10,000. After MDR, the merchant may receive ₹9,960. The merchant has therefore incurred a ₹40 additional cost. What happens next? The merchant may absorb it. Or reduce discounts. Or increase the selling price. Or some combination of these. This is where a basic economic concept comes in: ECONOMIC INCIDENCE. Legal incidence asks: Who is officially charged? Here, it is the merchant. Economic incidence asks: Who ultimately bears the cost after the market adjusts? And these two need not be the same. Think back to the Salt Tax The British could impose the tax within the salt supply system, but the burden ultimately reached ordinary Indians through something everyone had to buy. Gandhi understood that choosing an everyday necessity made the issue personal and understandable to almost everyone. The same economic principle is worth considering with MDR. although the two situations are obviously very different in scale, purpose and context. If the cost of doing business increases, that cost does not simply disappear. A merchant can absorb it through lower margins. But depending on competition, pricing power and customer sensitivity, some of it may be passed through to consumers through higher prices or fewer discounts. This is known as COST PASS-THROUGH. Importantly, economics does not say that 100% of MDR must necessarily be passed on to the consumer. The actual proportion depends on market conditions. But it is equally incomplete to say: “The merchant pays MDR, therefore the consumer is unaffected.” The merchant is part of the same economic chain as the consumer. So perhaps the better question is not “Who pays MDR?” It is: WHO ULTIMATELY BEARS MDR? The merchant may legally receive the bill. But economically, the burden can be shared between the merchant and the consumer depending on how the market responds. And that distinction between who is charged and who ultimately bears the cost is one of the most basic ideas in economics. Almost a century ago, Gandhi chose salt because everyone consumed it. Today, UPI has become deeply embedded in everyday commerce. The technology has changed. The economic question has not: WHEN A COST IS ADDED SOMEWHERE IN THE CHAIN, WHO ULTIMATELY PAYS? Disclaimer: This is an independent commentary intended for general informational and educational purposes. It does not constitute financial, legal, tax or investment advice. Readers are encouraged to independently evaluate the facts and applicable rules before relying on the views expressed herein. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Government Policy Author Info Name: CA Vineet Rawat Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Vineet Rawat & Associates Location: South West Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 9 View full profile → More from CA Vineet Rawat India-EU Free Trade Agreement: What’s changing and how to get ready for it? September 12, 2026 E-Commerce Rules: Key Amendments from 1 January 2027 September 11, 2026 Foreign Assets of Small Taxpayers Disclosure Scheme, 2026 (FAST-DS 2026) September 6, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance IFSCA Framework for Differential Distribution in Venture Capital and Restricted Schemes September 25, 2026 Best Fixed Deposit Options In India September 25, 2026 Why Traders Sometimes Enter a Trade Too Late September 25, 2026 CAGR Calculator vs Lumpsum Calculator – What Does Each One Tell You? September 24, 2026 PMLA Special Court Jurisdiction Revised for Four Himachal Pradesh Districts September 23, 2026 IFSCA Relaxes Qualified Jeweller Eligibility for Gold, Silver Imports Through IIBX September 23, 2026