Summary: One Person Companies have a distinct financial statement filing framework under the Companies Act, 2013. While an OPC does not hold an annual general meeting, Section 137 requires its duly adopted financial statements and prescribed accompanying documents to be filed within 180 days from the closure of the financial year. For FY 2025-26, the article identifies 27 September 2026 as the AOC-4 deadline. Section 173 also gives OPCs a relaxed Board meeting framework, with at least one meeting in each half of the calendar year and a minimum 90-day gap, while a single-director OPC is exempt from the meeting and quorum requirements. Rule 12 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 governs the filing mechanics through AOC-4 and related forms. The article additionally explains the FY 2025-26 MCA V3 changes affecting linked filings, including AOC-1, AOC-2 and CSR-2 where applicable, professional certification and DSC validation. Before filing, an OPC should finalise its Balance Sheet, Statement of Profit and Loss, applicable Cash Flow Statement, Auditor’s Report, Board’s Report, Notes to Accounts and member adoption documentation. The practical checklist emphasises independent deadline calculation, correct documentation of the Board process, reconciliation of financial statements, identification of triggered linked forms, advance DSC verification, maintaining a filing buffer and checking the current AOC-4 version on the MCA portal. OPC Financial Statement Filing 2026 Within 180 Days of FY-End: What Must Be Ready Before You File (Filing Checklist) A statutory walkthrough of Section 137, Section 173, and Rule 12 as applied to the One Person Company — with the FY 2025-26 filing calendar and a practical checklist. Table of Contents▸ Why This Matters More Than It Appears To Part I — The Statutory Foundation Section 137: The Filing Obligation Itself Section 137(3): What Happens If You Miss It Section 173: The Board Meeting Backbone Behind the Filing Rule 12 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014: The Filing Mechanics Part II — Applying This to an OPC, FY 2025-26 Documents That Must Be Finalised Before Filing What MCA V3 Has Changed for FY 2025-26 Filings Part III — Practical Pre-Filing Checklist Closing Note Show all 11 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Why This Matters More Than It Appears To One Person Companies are frequently treated as the “light compliance” corner of the Companies Act, 2013 — and in terms of governance overhead, that reputation is largely earned. But the financial statement filing obligation under Section 137 is not one of the areas where an OPC gets an easier ride. It gets a different timeline, a distinct set of adoption formalities, and its own penalty exposure if either is missed. This note lays out the statutory architecture, the FY 2025-26 procedural changes, and a working checklist for practitioners and promoters alike. Part I — The Statutory Foundation Section 137: The Filing Obligation Itself Section 137(1) requires every company to file a copy of its financial statements, along with all documents required to be attached to them, with the Registrar — but the trigger event differs sharply by company type. For most companies, that trigger is adoption at the annual general meeting, with a filing window of thirty days from that AGM date. A dedicated proviso to Section 137(1), however, carves out a wholly separate regime for the One Person Company: it must file a copy of the financial statements duly adopted by its member, along with all documents required to be attached, within one hundred eighty days from the closure of the financial year. This is the structural point every OPC promoter and every advising professional needs to internalise: the 180-day clock runs from the financial year-end, not from any meeting date, because no AGM exists in the OPC framework to serve as an anchor. Section 137(3): What Happens If You Miss It The penalty structure has been amended several times since 2013 — moving from imprisonment/fine, to a flat per-day fine, to the current civil-penalty framework. As it stands today: a company that fails to file within the prescribed period is liable to a penalty of ten thousand rupees, with a further penalty of one hundred rupees for each day of continuing failure, subject to a maximum of two lakh rupees. The managing director and CFO — or, in their absence, the director charged with responsibility, or in the absence of such a director, every director — are separately liable to a penalty of ten thousand rupees, with a further penalty of one hundred rupees per day thereafter, subject to a maximum of fifty thousand rupees each. For an OPC — where the “director charged with responsibility” is very often the sole promoter-director — this personal exposure is not theoretical; it attaches directly and immediately once the 180-day window lapses. Section 173: The Board Meeting Backbone Behind the Filing Financial statements cannot be validly adopted without a properly constituted Board process behind them, and Section 173 sets a materially relaxed standard for OPCs compared to the general four-meetings-a-year rule applicable to other companies. A One Person Company, small company, and dormant company are deemed compliant if at least one meeting is conducted in each half of a calendar year, with a gap of not less than ninety days between the two. Further, where an OPC has only one director on its Board, the meeting requirement — and the quorum requirement under Section 174 — does not apply to it at all. This is precisely why, for a genuinely single-director OPC, minute-book documentation of “board approval” of the financial statements takes a different, simplified form than the resolution-driven process used elsewhere — but that simplified form still has to exist and be traceable. Rule 12 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014: The Filing Mechanics Rule 12 operationalises Section 137 by specifying which e-form carries the filing obligation. Every company must file its financial statements with the Registrar together with Form AOC-4, and consolidated financial statements, if any, with Form AOC-4 CFS; NBFCs following Ind AS use AOC-4 NBFC (Ind AS) and AOC-4 CFS NBFC (Ind AS); companies covered under Section 135 must additionally furnish a CSR report in Form CSR-2 as an addendum to the relevant AOC-4 form; and every company must also file e-Form extracts of the Board’s Report and the Auditor’s Report, with a signed, authenticated copy of the financial statements attached in PDF wherever XBRL forms are used. The rule has been amended more than a dozen times since 2014 — most recently through the Companies (Accounts) Second Amendment Rules, 2025 — largely updating form nomenclature and CSR-2 deadlines. The practical lesson: always check the current form version on the MCA V3 portal rather than assuming last year’s filing sets the template. Part II — Applying This to an OPC, FY 2025-26 Compliance Parameter One Person Company Private Limited Company AGM requirement Exempt under Section 96 Mandatory by 30 Sep 2026 AOC-4 filing trigger 180 days from FY-end 30 days from AGM date AOC-4 deadline, FY 2025-26 27 September 2026 Variable, AGM-linked Annual return form MGT-7A (simplified) MGT-7, or MGT-7A if small company MGT-7A deadline 60 days from deemed AGM (29 Nov 2026) 60 days from AGM Minimum Board meetings/year 2, gap ≥ 90 days 4, gap ≤ 120 days Meeting/quorum exemption Full exemption for single-director OPC Not applicable This distinction — no AGM requirement, an AOC-4 deadline of 180 days from financial year-end rather than 30 days from AGM, and a simplified MGT-7A rather than a full MGT-7 — is what makes OPC annual compliance structurally different from private limited company compliance, not merely a lighter version of the same process. Documents That Must Be Finalised Before Filing Balance Sheet, with comparative figures and detailed notes on share capital, reserves, and borrowings Statement of Profit and Loss, with comparative and detailed disclosures Cash Flow Statement, where applicable to the company’s reporting category Auditor’s Report (standalone; consolidated where a CFS applies) Board’s Report, in the OPC-specific disclosure format Notes to Accounts covering related-party transactions, contingent liabilities, CSR (if triggered), and accounting policies Member’s resolution / certificate of adoption in lieu of AGM adoption Digital Signature Certificates — of the authorised signatory and the certifying professional What MCA V3 Has Changed for FY 2025-26 Filings From 14 July 2025, AOC-4 e-forms on the MCA V3 portal require CSR-2 linked filing wherever Section 135 applies, additional Board’s Report disclosure fields, and signed PDF financials for companies filing under XBRL. Three points specifically affect OPC filers this cycle: 1. AOC-1 and AOC-2 are now standalone e-forms requiring professional certification — no longer PDF attachments bundled loosely into AOC-4. Relevant only where an OPC has subsidiaries/associates/JVs, or related-party transactions requiring Board approval under Section 188(1). 2. Secretarial audit qualification disclosures have been added as a reporting field where a secretarial audit applies to the company. 3. DSC chain validation now runs across the entire linked-form set (AOC-4 plus AOC-1/AOC-2/CSR-2, as applicable) rather than a single point of signature — an expired or mismatched DSC on any linked form can hold up the entire filing. Part III — Practical Pre-Filing Checklist 1. Calculate the deadline independently — 180 days from financial year-end, never from an AGM date that doesn’t exist for the OPC. 2. Confirm the Board process is documented correctly — either the standard resolution route, or, for a genuine single-director OPC, the simplified adoption record permitted under Section 173(5)’s proviso. 3. Reconcile all financial statement components — Balance Sheet, P&L, Notes, Auditor’s Report — before initiating the e-form. 4. Identify triggered linked forms — CSR-2 (Section 135), AOC-1 (subsidiaries/JVs), AOC-2 (related-party transactions) — each now a separately certified e-form. 5. Verify DSC validity across every signatory in the linked-form chain well before the deadline, not on filing day. 6. Build in a 2–3 week buffer ahead of 27 September 2026 to absorb professional certification turnaround and any V3 portal correction cycles. 7. Cross-check the exact AOC-4 form version in use on the MCA portal against the current Companies (Accounts) Rules amendment in force. Closing Note The OPC’s governance load is genuinely lighter than a private limited company’s — fewer board meetings, no AGM, a simplified annual return. But Section 137’s filing obligation and its penalty consequences apply to an OPC with the same statutory force as to any other company, calculated against a deadline that has nothing to do with a meeting the OPC will never hold. The compliance discipline that matters here isn’t volume — it’s tracking the right date. © M/s. Ronak Jhuthawat & Co., Company Secretaries. This Knowledge Series note is prepared for general awareness and does not constitute professional advice. Readers should seek specific counsel before acting on any matter discussed herein. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013MCAOPC Author Info Name: Dr. CS RONAK JHUTHAWAT Qualification: CS Company: Ronak Jhuthawat &; Co. Location: Udaipur, Rajasthan Articles Published: 46 View full profile → More from Dr. CS RONAK JHUTHAWAT Beyond Listing Bell: What Directors and KMPs Must Know About PIT Compliance September 19, 2026 Procedure For Adjudication of Penalties Under Companies Act, 2013 September 12, 2026 Procedure For Transfer of Shares Held In Physical Form In A Private Company September 12, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law MCA Cautions Public Against High-Return Promises by Non-Compliant Nidhi Companies September 24, 2026 ICAI Announces CA Foundation and Intermediate January 2027 Examination Schedule September 24, 2026 Mudra Denim Ordered Into Liquidation After 99.89% CoC Approval: NCLT Mumbai September 24, 2026 Can a Board Meeting and General Meeting Be Held on the Same Day? September 24, 2026 Managing Director Criminal Liability Depends on Statutory & Personal Involvement September 23, 2026 MCA Extends Tenure of Eight NCLAT Members for Five Years September 23, 2026