Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 15052 Case Name Union of India Vs Gautam Garg (Rajasthan High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Rajasthan High Court Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Union of India Vs Gautam Garg (Rajasthan High Court) Summary: The Rajasthan High Court, Jaipur Bench allowed the Union of India’s application under Section 439(2) Cr.P.C. and cancelled the bail granted to Gautam Garg in proceedings concerning offences under Sections 132(1)(c) and 132(1)(f) of the CGST Act, 2017. The Department alleged that Gautam Garg and his uncle collected fake bills from fake and non-existent firms without supply of goods for M/s Gurbax Rai Cotton Industries, M/s Gurbax Rai & Sons and M/s Gurbax Rai Parveen Kumar. It relied upon Gautam Garg’s statement under Section 70, cash and documents recovered during search, pre-signed chequebooks, weighbridge receipts, purchase invoices, raw slips and material allegedly found in WhatsApp groups. According to the Department, investigation ultimately disclosed wrongful ITC of Rs.8.59 crores based on fake bills without supply of goods/services. The Sessions Court had granted bail, inter alia, observing that the Department could not establish Gautam Garg’s position as manager of the three firms, no electronic evidence had been found at his residence, reasons for believing in his arrest had not been produced, and the arrest memo lacked grounds for arrest. The High Court held that the lower court’s analysis suffered from perversity. It observed that being formally shown as manager of the firms was not a condition precedent for prosecution under Section 132 where a person commits or causes commission of the specified acts and retains the resulting benefits. The High Court found that the lower court had ignored documents, electronic evidence and other incriminating material allegedly connecting the respondent with false and fabricated goodless invoices and wrongful ITC. The High Court also reiterated that economic offences are a class apart requiring a different approach in bail matters. On the arrest issue, it observed that while considering bail it was not desirable to enter into the legality of arrest unless there was gross violation of a statutory provision, and found that the respondent had been informed of the grounds of arrest before arrest. Holding that the Sessions Court had misconstrued both the facts and legal position and failed to consider the gravity of the alleged offence, the High Court cancelled the bail order dated 03.11.2023 and directed Gautam Garg to surrender before the trial court within 30 days. Cases Discussed Narendra Rathi Vs Senior Intelligence Officer, decided on 16.03.2023 — The Department submitted that the trial court had relied upon this decision while misconstruing Section 19 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act with Section 69 of the CGST Act. Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Vs Central Bureau of Investigation, Criminal Appeal No.730/2013 (Supreme Court) — Relied upon by the Department on considerations governing bail, including nature of accusation and evidence, severity of punishment, possibility of securing the accused’s presence, apprehension of witness tampering and larger public/State interest. P. V. Ramana Reddy Vs Union of India & Ors., W.P. No.4764/2019, decided on 18.04.2019 (Telangana High Court) — Relied upon by the Department for the proposition that where reasons to believe are recorded in the file, they need not be reproduced in the authorization for arrest under Section 69(1) of the CGST Act; the judgment was stated to have been challenged before the Supreme Court and the Special Leave Petition dismissed on 27.05.2019. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT 1. The present criminal bail cancellation application filed under Section 439(2) of Cr.P.C. has been preferred by Union of India through Additional Director General of GST Intelligence, Jaipur against the order dated 03.11.2023 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge No.2, Jaipur Metropolitan-II whereby, bail application No.179/2022 under Section 132(1)(c) & (f) of CGST Act, 2017 (from now on referred to as ‘CGST’) was accepted. 2. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the learned Court below committed an error while granting the bail to the present respondent, Gautam Garg. The learned Court below has observed that the statement of respondent Gautam Garg was not recorded under normal circumstances; there was no evidence that Gautam Garg is a Manager in Firm M/s Gurbax Rai Cotton Industries, M/s Gurbax Rai & Sons and M/s Gurbax Rai Praveen Kumar. No electronic evidence was found on the residential premises of Gautam Garg; the department could not produce the reasons for believing in the arrest of Gautam Garg. The State Goods and Services Tax Department of Rajasthan has issued a summons to Gautam Garg. Two proceedings cannot run simultaneously. Lastly, the evasion of Goods and Services Tax (from now on referred to as ‘GST’) is only Rs.7.48 crores. After relying upon the judgment of Hon’ble Allahabad High Court, the Court below allowed the bail application of Gautam Garg. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that the above observations in the bail application are contrary to facts. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that respondent Gautam Garg, in his statement recorded under Section 70 of the GST Act, has clearly stated that he and his uncle Lovkesh Kumar collected fake bills from fake and non-existent firms based in Sirsa Haryana without supplying any goods for the three companies namely; M/s Gurbax Rai Cotton Industries, M/s Gurbax Rai and Sons & M/s Gurbax Rai Parveen Kumar. The facts also disclose that in a search conducted by the Department, Rs.4.00 lacs were found in the residence of respondent Gautam Garg. 4. Apart from the evidence of petitioner under Section 70 of the GST Act, pre-signed chequebooks, weighbridge receipts, details of jeans brokers, purchase invoices and raw slips related to the firm M/s Gurbax Rai Cotton Industries, M/s Gurbax Rai and Sons & M/s Gurbax Rai Parveen Kumar were also recovered from the residence of Gautam Garg and Lovkesh Kumar. Further, two WhatsApp groups were found on the mobile of Gautam Garg, in which Gautam Garg and Lovkesh Kumar were members, and evidence of GST evasion by the said firms was found in the said WhatsApp group. The search was conducted under Section 67(2) of Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. 5. Further, Gautam Garg in his statement, has also stated that recovered cash is related to the business activity of M/s Gurbax Rai Cotton Industries, M/s Gurbax Rai and Sons & M/s Gurbax Rai Praveen Kumar. The respondent also made available the cash books to the said firms. In the statement, respondent Gautam Garg has also stated that firms, namely M/s Gurbax Rai Cotton Industries, M/s Gurbax Rai and Sons & M/s Gurbax Rai Praveen Kumar did not receive any goods, and only the bills received from the firms are from the fake firms. In the search operation, many documents and electronic evidence related to the firms were found in Gautam Garg’s residence and mobile phone. Learned counsel further submits that as per amended Section 132 of CGST Act, whoever commits or causes to commit and retain the benefits arising out of any supplies, any goods or both, without issue of any invoice in violation of provisions of CGST Act or the rules made thereunder, to evade tax and issues any invoice or bill without supplying the goods or avails Input Tax Credit (from now on referred to as ‘ITC’) using such invoices or bills referred to in Clause B or fraudulently availing ITC without any invoice or bill is punishable by up to five years with a fine, and the offences cognizable and non-bailable. The learned trial Court wrongly observed that there was no evidence that Gautam Garg has issued or received good-less invoices on behalf of M/s Gurbax Rai Cotton Industries, M/s Gurbax Rai and Sons & M/s Gurbax Rai Praveen Kumar. As per amended Section 132 of the CGST Act, any person who causes to commit and retain the benefits arising out of fraudulently availing ITC without any invoice or bill is responsible and can be prosecuted under Section 132 of the CGST Act. There was enough material on the record to show that respondent Gautam Garg committed and retained the benefits arising from issuing bills without receiving goods and fraudulently availing ITC on behalf of the three companies. The petitioner didn’t need to show that petitioner was appointed as Manager of the three companies. Therefore, the learned trial Court erred in observing that no evidence available against the petitioner regarding committing a crime under the CGST Act. 6. Learned counsel for the petitioner further vehemently submits that statement under Section 70 of the CGST Act is admissible in evidence that can be used against the person who has rendered such evidence. Learned counsel further submits that after the entire investigation, it was found that respondent Gautam Garg had wrongly availed ITC amounting to Rs.8.59 crores based on fake bills without supplying goods/services. The respondent, Gautam Garg, has collected fake bills from fake and non-existent firms. Therefore, enlarging the petitioner on regular bail was wrong. He further argues that as per judgment of P. V. Ramana Reddy Vs. Union of India & Ors. In WP No.4764/2019 passed by Hon’ble High Court for the State of Telangana dated 18.04.2019, the discretion was made between the provisions enshrined under Section 41(A)(3) of Cr.P.C. The Telangana High Court held that if reasons to believe are recorded in the file, it is unnecessary to record those provisions in the authorization for arrest under Section 69(1) of the CGST Act. The vocabulary used under Section 69(1) of the CGST Act, 2017 “reasons to believe is not contrary to the words reasons to be recorded appearing in Section 41(A)(3) Cr.P.C. Therefore, the Department didn’t need to disclose the reasons for authorizing the arrest. The learned trial Court, while relying upon the judgment of Narendra Rathi Vs. Senior Intelligence Officer dated 16.03.2023 misconstrued the provisions of Section 19 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (from now ons referred to as ‘PMLA’) with Section 69 of CGST Act, 2017. He further submits that judgment of the Hon’ble Telangana High Court was challenged before the Hon’ble Apex Court and Hon’ble Apex Court vide judgment dated 27.05.2019 dismissed the Special Leave to Appeal preferred by P.V. Ramana Reddy; therefore, enlarging the respondent on bail was incorrect. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that in a catena of judgments, the Hon’ble Apex Court has reiterated that economic offences are class apart and not to be visited with a different approach in the matter of bail. In the matter of Y. S. Jagmohan Reddy Vs. Central Bureau of Investigation Criminal Appeal No.730/2013, the Hon’ble Apex Court categorically held that while granting bail, the Court has to keep in mind the nature of the accusation, the nature of evidence and support thereof, the severity of the punishment with a conviction which entirely the character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the accused at the trial reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being tampered with the more significant interest of public/State and other similar occasions, therefore, in the light of the above judgments, the learned trial Court has wrongly enlarged the petitioner under Section 439(2) of Cr.P.C. 7. Therefore, the application for cancelling the petitioner’s bail may be allowed, and the respondent may be directed to be taken into custody. 8. The matter was heard on 29.04.2024 in the absence of counsel for the respondent. Thereafter, the matter was again listed before this Court on 18.07.2024 upon the application filed by the respondent for considering the reply; counsel for the respondent remained absent on 18.07.2024 and matter was finally heard considering the reply filed on behalf of the respondent. 9. Learned counsel for the respondent was absent, and no one appeared on behalf of the sole respondent, Gautam Garg. 10. In response to the cancellation of the bail application, the sole respondent has submitted his written reply and justifies the order passed by the Court below. 11. The law enunciated for cancelling the bail granted is synopsised as follows:- (i) If there are serious allegations against the accused and he has not misused the bail granted to him. In that case, such an order can be revoked by the Court if the Courts below have ignored the relevant material available on record or not looked into the gravity of the offence or the impact on the society resulting in such an order. (ii) The Court can cancel bail if a change in circumstances justifies it. (iii) If the accused is arrested for committing a new offence while on bail for a previous one, this can be grounds for bail cancellation. (iv) If the accused poses a significant risk to public safety or threatens the community, the Court may cancel bail to protect society. (v) If the accused repeatedly fails to appear in Court when required, the Court may cancel bail due to his non-appearance. (vi) Courts have the authority to cancel bail if it is deemed necessary in the interests of justice. This discretion should be exercised judiciously and not arbitrarily. (vii) If the accused tries to obstruct the legal process or interferes with how justice is served. (viii) When the accused attempts to escape or avoid facing the legal consequences of his actions. (ix) If the person misuses the freedom granted to him by bail for unlawful activities. (x) If it becomes evident that the accused is planning to flee the jurisdiction to avoid prosecution, the Court may cancel his bail. (xi) If the individual uses his freedom on bail for unlawful activities, such as committing another crime or engaging in activities that undermine the legal process. (xii) If evidence suggests that the accused is attempting to intimidate or influence witnesses in the case, his bail can be cancelled. (xiii) If there is reason to believe that the accused is trying to destroy or manipulate evidence crucial to the case, this can lead to bail cancellation. (xiv) The Court granting bail disregards relevant evidence while considering irrelevant material and trivial details. (xv) If bail has been granted on untenable or unsustainable grounds. (xvi) When the bail order is marred by serious flaws that result in a miscarriage of justice. On the touchstone of the above-stated tenets, the Court must analyze whether the impugned order dated 03.11.2023 granting bail needs interference. The learned Court below observed that the petitioner is entitled to bail as the memo of arrest lacks grounds for arrest. The learned Court below placed reliance upon the Judgment Hon’ble Allahabad High Court. The provisions of arrest are described explicitly under section 69 of the CGST Act below:- “Where a person is arrested under Sub-Section (1) for an offence specified under Sub-Section (5) of Section 132, the officer authorized to arrest the person shall inform such person of the grounds of arrest and produce him before a Magistrate within twenty-four hours” (xvii) If the bail order appears to be arbitrary, whimsical, or perverse given the specific facts of the case. 12. The Court also analysed that no material is available on the record to suggest that the accused petitioner, the manager of the three companies, generated fake and goodless invoices for claiming input credit tax. 13. The analysis of the Court below suffers from perversity as it is not the condition precedent for prosecuting a person under section 132 of the CGST Act. The provisions explicitly state that whoever commits or causes to commit and retain the benefits arising from any supplies, goods, or both without the issue of any invoice or without supplying the goods avails input tax credit is liable to prosecution. Thus, the absence of material indicating the accused petitioner as the manager of the three firms is not essential. The Court below did not assess the consequence and spirit of the provision under section 132 of the CGST Act. The Court completely ignored the incriminating material collected against the petitioner. The factual aspects show that many documents and electronic evidence were collected and petitioner was found to be directly involved in generating the false and fabricated goodless invoices. Further, the Court below ignored the factual aspect put forth by the Department and also failed to appreciate that the respondent had wrongly availed ITC by generating fake invoices causing wrongful gain to the three companies and wrongful loss to the Government. The ITC availed by the respondent amounts to Rs.8.59 crores. While granting bail to economic offender, the Hon’ble Apex Court has reiterated that economic offences are class apart and need to be visited with different approach in the matter of bail. The Court below while considering the bail application of respondent, did not consider the gravity of the offences and enlarged the respondent on bail misconstruing the facts and the legal position. It is also pertinent to mention here that while considering the bail application, it is not desirable for the Court to enter into the question of legality of the arrest, the legality of the arrest can be questioned only if there is a gross violation of any provision of the Act. In the present case, before arresting the respondent, the respondent was duly informed regarding grounds of arrest. 14. Thus, in view of the detailed discussion, this Court deems it appropriate to cancel the bail granted to respondent-Gautam Garg S/o Shri Rajesh Garg, the same stands cancelled. The application for cancellation of bail is allowed and the order granting bail dated 03.11.2023 passed by learned Additional Sessions Judge No.2, Jaipur Metropolitan-II is cancelled accordingly. The respondent-Gautam Garg S/o Shri Rajesh Garg shall surrender before the trial Court within 30 days from today. The copy of this order shall be transmitted to the learned trial Court forthwith. The trial Court is hereby directed to issue necessary directions in this regard in order to ensure the presence of the accused before it. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Fake ITCGoods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgments Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,298 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Fake ITC Through 21 Entities Warrants Custodial Interrogation; Anticipatory Bail Denied: Bombay HC October 7, 2026 Physical GST Registration Revocation Application Allowed After Online Time Limit Expired: Telangana HC October 7, 2026 Writ Against GST SCN Involving Disputed Facts Not Maintainable: Punjab & Haryana HC October 7, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Fake ITC Through 21 Entities Warrants Custodial Interrogation; Anticipatory Bail Denied: Bombay HC October 7, 2026 Physical GST Registration Revocation Application Allowed After Online Time Limit Expired: Telangana HC October 7, 2026 Writ Against GST SCN Involving Disputed Facts Not Maintainable: Punjab & Haryana HC October 7, 2026 Selecting “No” for Personal Hearing Cannot Override CGST Section 75(4) Mandate: Gujarat HC October 7, 2026 Anticipatory Bail U/S 438 CrPC Not Maintainable at GST Summons Stage: Telangana HC October 7, 2026 Section 41A CrPC Notice Not Mandatory Before Arrest Under Section 69(1) CGST Act: Kerala HC October 7, 2026