Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Tata Steel Limited has announced its provisional production and delivery volumes for the second quarter of the fiscal year 2027, showcasing significant growth across its Indian operations. The company’s crude steel production in India reached 6.21 million tons, marking an 8% increase quarter-on-quarter (QoQ) and a 10% rise year-on-year (YoY). This growth was primarily driven by enhanced output at the Jamshedpur and Kalinganagar facilities. For the first half of FY2027, production in India rose by 10% YoY to 11.97 million tons. Delivery volumes for Tata Steel India also demonstrated robust growth, standing at 5.97 million tons for the quarter, reflecting a 15% increase QoQ and a 7% rise YoY. This was attributed to an enriched product mix and stable demand across market segments, despite seasonal rains. The half-yearly delivery volumes increased by 8% YoY to 11.14 million tons. Notably, the ‘Automotive & Special Products’ vertical achieved its best-ever second-quarter volumes, driven by the ramp-up of facilities at Kalinganagar and Jamshedpur. The ‘Branded Products & Retail’ vertical also recorded its best-ever quarterly volumes, supported by strong brand performance and market penetration. In its international operations, Tata Steel Netherlands reported a liquid steel production of approximately 1.52 million tons, with deliveries at 1.30 million tons for the quarter. The restart of the Direct Sheet Plant in August 2026 contributed to these figures. Meanwhile, Tata Steel UK faced challenges, with deliveries impacted by inventory buildup ahead of new safeguard measures. However, the company successfully ramped up production at its Llanwern pickle line. In Thailand, saleable steel production and deliveries were slightly lower due to heavy rains in September. Analysts view Tata Steel’s performance as a positive indicator of the company’s strategic initiatives and operational efficiencies. The growth in production and delivery volumes, particularly in India, underscores the company’s resilience and ability to adapt to market demands. As Tata Steel continues to enhance its production capabilities and market reach, it remains a key player in the global steel industry. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under NSE Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Tata Steel Reports Strong Production and Delivery Growth in 2QFY2027 October 7, 2026 BMC collaborates with Godrej Properties and RC Group for Bandra Bay promenade October 7, 2026 Tata Power collaborates with Ocean Sun on innovative floating solar project in India October 7, 2026 Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories to announce Q2FY27 results on 23 October 2026 October 7, 2026 Airtel introduces free roaming on all postpaid plans October 7, 2026 Sun Pharma establishes endowed professorship to advance dermatologic care October 6, 2026