Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) has circulated the Exposure Draft of Proposed Syllabus 2027 for scholarly guidance and constructive feedback from members, students and other stakeholders. The syllabus revision forms part of ICSI’s continuous process aimed at holistic student growth through capacity building, knowledge refinement and skill enhancement. The Proposed Syllabus 2027 has been developed after a comprehensive review of the evolving corporate environment and seeks to reflect developments across the financial, economic, social, technological, legal and regulatory landscape. It also seeks alignment with the changing expectations of students, industry, regulators, employers and other stakeholders. Major features highlighted by ICSI include experiential and application-based learning as a core curriculum component, integration of emerging technologies, digital tools and industry practices, strengthening of practical competencies, development of analytical and critical thinking, and bridging the gap between academic learning and professional expectations. A questionnaire has been prepared to obtain inputs on broad areas covered by the Exposure Draft. Stakeholders may also submit their views and suggestions through the specified email address. ICSI has additionally provided a video link for greater clarity on the Exposure Draft. The Institute has requested stakeholders to submit their responses by September 30, 2026, stating that the inputs will help align the curriculum with practical industry needs, technological advancements, regulatory changes and the development of Governance Professionals. THE INSTITUTE OF Company Secretaries of India IN PURSUIT OF PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE Statutory body under an Act of Parliament (Under the jurisdiction of Ministry of Corporate Affairs) Dear Stakeholders, The Syllabus revision is a continuous process undertaken with the aim to foster holistic growth of the students by capacity building, knowledge refinement and skill enhancement. The Proposed Syllabus 2027 has been developed through a comprehensive review of evolving corporate environment with a view to reflect the latest developments in the financial, economic, social, technological, legal and regulatory landscape. The revision process also seeks to align the syllabus with the evolving expectations of students, industry, regulators, employers, and other stakeholders. The major highlights of the Proposed Syllabus 2027 include embedding of experiential and application-based learning as a core component of the curriculum, integrating emerging technologies, digital tools and industry practices to strengthen practical competencies, foster analytical and critical thinking and bridge the gap between academic learning and professional expectations. The overall objective of this revision is to design a curriculum that remains contemporary, future-oriented and responsive to the dynamic professional landscape. The Proposed Syllabus 2027, in its draft form, is being circulated to seek the scholarly guidance and constructive feedback of members, students, and all other stakeholders. A Questionnaire has been prepared seeking inputs on broad areas of the Exposure Draft. The Exposure Draft is available at the link: https://icsis3-console.kreate-cloud.com:9002/icsi-prod/media/cms_uploads/exposure-draft-02-sept-26-53c5f928.pdf The Questionnaire is available at the link: Stakeholder Consultation on Exposure Draft of Proposed Syllabus 2027 – Fill out form The views/suggestions can also be sent through email at [email protected] To have more clarity on the Exposure Draft of Proposed Syllabus, the stakeholders may refer the link https://www.youtube.com/live/WCnGxJIp9ks?si=rt_DEO0R-7Gtcvog. Your valuable inputs are earnestly solicited as they will contribute significantly in aligning the curriculum with practical industry needs, technological advancements, regulatory changes and the development of Governance Professionals committed to excellence, innovation and responsible leadership. We look forward to receive your response latest by September 30, 2026. Team ICSI Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Company SecretaryICSI Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in CA, CS, CMA 100 Powerful AI Prompts for Professional Auditors to Improve Audit Efficiency September 27, 2026 ICSI Seeks Inclusion of Company Secretaries for DGFT E-Commerce Compliance Certification September 26, 2026 ICSI Council Approves New Exam Centres and Chapter Jurisdiction Changes September 25, 2026 Proposed Bank Strike Prompts ICAI Advisory on Audit and AGM Deadlines September 25, 2026 Company Secretary’s Evolving Role: From Compliance to Strategic Governance September 25, 2026 ICAI Financial Statement Format for Non-Corporate Entities: Applicability & Checklist September 25, 2026