Evolution of the Company Secretary Profession: From Compliance Officer to Strategic Governance Professional — 2015, 2026 and the Road to 2040 Summary: The role of the Company Secretary in India has undergone a significant transformation over the last decade. The implementation of the Companies Act, 2013, the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, increasing regulatory expectations and the growth of technology have progressively expanded the role beyond conventional secretarial compliance. In 2015, the profession was entering a new statutory era in which the Company Secretary was formally positioned as a Key Managerial Personnel and governance professional, with responsibilities spanning compliance, Board processes, Secretarial Standards and regulatory interaction. By 2026, the role has expanded across Board advisory, securities law, capital markets, corporate transactions, insolvency, risk management, secretarial audit and regulatory coordination. Digitisation, automation, RegTech and artificial intelligence are simultaneously changing how routine compliance work is performed. Looking towards 2040, the article envisages a potential Strategic Governance Professional who supervises technology-enabled compliance systems while concentrating increasingly on interpretation, judgement, ethics, accountability, data governance, AI governance, technology risk and Board-level advice. The prospective shift is therefore not simply from manual work to automation, but from reactive compliance towards proactive governance. The professional value of the future Company Secretary may increasingly lie in combining law, business, finance, technology, governance and judgement. Table of Contents▸ Abstract 1. Introduction 2. 2015: The Beginning of the Modern Governance Role The 2015 CS: Core Areas 3. The Legal Foundation of the CS as a Governance Professional 4. 2026: The Company Secretary in a More Complex Regulatory Environment 5. The Compliance Officer and the Listed Company 6. The Modern CS: Beyond Routine Compliance 6.1 Board Governance 6.2 Capital Markets 6.3 Mergers and Acquisitions 6.4 Insolvency and NCLT Matters 7.Secretarial audit: From Compliance Verification to Governance Assurance 8. The Technology Revolution If technology can automate routine compliance, what becomes the core value of the CS? Interpretation, judgement, governance and accountability. 9. 2040: The Potential AI-Enabled Governance Professional 10. What Could the 2040 CS Look Like? Possible responsibilities may include: AI Governance Data Governance Technology Risk Regulatory Intelligence Board Advisory 11. What AI May Automate—and What It May Not 12. The Skill Set of the 2040 CS Legal Knowledge Financial Knowledge Business Knowledge Technology Governance Communication 13. 2015 vs 2026 vs 2040 14. The Changing Definition of "Compliance" 15. From Record Keeper to Governance Adviser 16. The Independence Question 17. Implications for CS Students and Young Professionals Core Add Then And increasingly Finally 18. Conclusion 2015 2026 2040 Author's Note: Show all 47 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Abstract The role of the Company Secretary in India has undergone a significant transformation over the last decade. The implementation of the Companies Act, 2013, the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, , increasing regulatory expectations and the growth of technology have progressively expanded the role of the Company Secretary beyond conventional secretarial compliance. In 2015, the profession was entering a new statutory era in which the Company Secretary was formally positioned as a Key Managerial Personnel and an important governance professional. By 2026, the role has expanded into Board advisory, securities-market compliance, regulatory interface, corporate transactions, risk management and governance. Looking towards 2040, artificial intelligence, RegTech, automated compliance systems, data governance and increasingly complex regulation may fundamentally alter how compliance work is performed. The likely consequence is not the disappearance of the Company Secretary, but a shift in professional value—from routine compliance execution towards interpretation, judgement, governance, accountability and strategic advisory. Keywords: Company Secretary, Corporate Governance, Compliance Officer, Companies Act, SEBI, LODR, AI, RegTech, Corporate Governance Professional, Board Advisory 1. Introduction The Company Secretary profession has traditionally been associated with corporate law compliance, Board meetings, statutory records, regulatory filings and corporate documentation. However, this description no longer fully captures the modern role. The contemporary Company Secretary operates at the intersection of law, regulation, governance, business, capital markets, risk and technology. The transformation can be broadly understood through three periods: 2015 — The statutory governance transition 2026 — The integrated governance and regulatory professional 2040 — The prospective technology-enabled governance professional The distinction is important because the profession is not merely changing in terms of technology. Its professional centre of gravity is also moving upward—from execution of compliance requirements towards interpretation, advisory and governance. 2. 2015: The Beginning of the Modern Governance Role The year 2015 represented an important stage in the implementation of the Companies Act, 2013. The Companies Act, 2013 expressly recognised the Company Secretary as a Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) under Section 203, subject to the applicable statutory requirements. Section 205 also specifies functions of the Company Secretary, including reporting to the Board about compliance with the Act, rules and other applicable laws, ensuring compliance with secretarial standards, providing guidance to directors and assisting the Board in its governance responsibilities. This represented a significant development. The CS was no longer merely responsible for maintaining corporate records. The statutory framework placed the CS within the company’s governance and decision-making architecture. The 2015 CS: Core Areas The professional environment around 2015 was substantially focused on: Companies Act compliance; Board and Committee meetings; General meetings; Statutory registers; ROC filings; Annual returns; Corporate resolutions; Secretarial Standards; Shareholder communication; Corporate governance requirements; and Regulatory correspondence. At the same time, the introduction of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 created a consolidated regulatory framework for listed entities. Consequently, the listed-company CS increasingly became an important interface between the company, its Board, shareholders, stock exchanges and securities-market regulators. 3. The Legal Foundation of the CS as a Governance Professional Section 205 of the Companies Act, 2013 is particularly relevant to understanding the evolution of the profession. The functions prescribed for the Company Secretary include: Reporting to the Board about compliance with the Companies Act, applicable rules and other laws; Ensuring compliance with applicable secretarial standards; Providing guidance to directors regarding their duties, responsibilities and powers; Facilitating meetings of the Board, committees and general meetings; Obtaining approvals from the Board, general meeting, Government and other authorities as required; Representing before various regulators and authorities; and Assisting and advising the Board in ensuring good corporate governance. The final two elements are especially significant. They demonstrate that the statutory conception of the Company Secretary goes beyond filing and documentation. The CS has a governance and advisory function embedded in the legal framework itself. 4. 2026: The Company Secretary in a More Complex Regulatory Environment The professional environment in 2026 is significantly more complex than that of 2015. Companies may simultaneously encounter requirements under: Companies Act, 2013; SEBI regulations; Stock-exchange requirements; FEMA; Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code; Competition law; Sector-specific regulations; ESG and sustainability frameworks; Data and technology regulations; RBI regulations for regulated entities; and Various other central and state laws. As a result, the modern CS increasingly acts as a regulatory coordination point within an organisation. The role can extend from conventional company law compliance to: Corporate Governance + Securities Law + Regulatory Compliance + Transactions + Risk + Board Advisory. 5. The Compliance Officer and the Listed Company One of the most important developments for the profession is the increasing importance of the Compliance Officer in listed entities. The SEBI LODR framework requires listed entities to have a qualified Company Secretary as Compliance Officer, subject to the applicable regulatory requirements. SEBI’s regulatory developments have also focused on strengthening the position and seniority of the Compliance Officer. This reflects an important principle: The person responsible for identifying and reporting regulatory compliance risks must have sufficient authority and access within the organisation to perform that responsibility effectively. The significance of this development goes beyond designation. It strengthens the connection between: Compliance → Senior Management → Board → Corporate Governance The CS is therefore increasingly positioned close to the company’s highest governance structures. 6. The Modern CS: Beyond Routine Compliance The contemporary Company Secretary may participate in a wide range of corporate activities. 6.1 Board Governance The CS may advise the Board on: Agenda items; Directors’ duties; Conflict-of-interest matters; Related-party transactions; Governance requirements; Disclosure obligations; Committee functioning; Board processes; and Corporate approvals. The value lies not merely in preparing the agenda, but in ensuring that the right legal and regulatory issues are placed before the Board before a decision is taken. 6.2 Capital Markets For companies accessing capital markets, the CS can be involved in: IPOs; Further public offerings; Rights issues; Preferential issues; Qualified institutional placements; Buy-backs; Delisting; Listing compliance; Disclosure requirements; and Corporate actions. This makes capital-market knowledge an increasingly important professional skill. 6.3 Mergers and Acquisitions Corporate transactions require coordination between: Corporate law; Securities regulations; Tax; Competition law; FEMA; Accounting; Valuation; Due diligence; and Regulatory approvals. The CS can therefore become an important transaction professional rather than merely a post-transaction compliance person. 6.4 Insolvency and NCLT Matters The expansion of India’s insolvency framework has created another important area of professional practice. A CS may work on: Corporate insolvency; Restructuring; Schemes of arrangement; Mergers; Demergers; NCLT proceedings; Corporate rehabilitation; and Related corporate-law documentation. The combination of corporate law and insolvency knowledge can therefore provide a specialised professional pathway. 7.Secretarial audit: From Compliance Verification to Governance Assurance Secretarial audit is another area illustrating the profession’s evolution. The purpose of Secretarial audit is not simply to check whether forms have been filed. It involves examining compliance with applicable corporate and other laws and reporting significant compliance observations. The Secretarial auditor therefore operates as an independent layer of governance assurance. The broader significance is that the CS profession participates not only in performing compliance, but also in independently evaluating compliance. 8. The Technology Revolution The most significant structural change between 2015 and 2026 has been the increasing digitisation of corporate compliance. The professional workflow has moved from: Physical records → Digital records → Integrated systems → Automation → AI-assisted compliance Regulatory technology can increasingly assist with: Compliance calendars; Regulatory updates; Document review; Data extraction; Corporate records; Disclosure monitoring; Regulatory reporting; Risk identification; and Compliance dashboards. This creates an important professional question: If technology can automate routine compliance, what becomes the core value of the CS? The answer is increasingly likely to be: Interpretation, judgement, governance and accountability. 9. 2040: The Potential AI-Enabled Governance Professional Any discussion of 2040 is necessarily prospective. It is not possible to determine precisely how corporate law, regulation or artificial intelligence will develop over the next fourteen years. However, current technological developments provide some indications. Artificial intelligence can already assist with: Document analysis; Regulatory research; Data classification; Contract review; Risk identification; Compliance monitoring; and Preparation of standardised corporate documentation. By 2040, these capabilities may become significantly more sophisticated. Routine compliance may increasingly operate through continuous, technology-enabled monitoring systems rather than periodic manual reviews. 10. What Could the 2040 CS Look Like? The potential future role can be conceptualised as a Strategic Governance Professional. Instead of spending substantial time performing repetitive tasks, the CS could increasingly supervise technology-driven compliance systems and focus on matters requiring human judgement. Possible responsibilities may include: AI Governance Governance of AI deployment; Accountability frameworks; Ethical use of AI; AI-related risk management. Data Governance Data accountability; Privacy governance; Corporate data policies; Regulatory reporting. Technology Risk Cybersecurity governance; Technology-related Board reporting; Digital operational risk. Regulatory Intelligence Monitoring regulatory developments; Analysing their business implications; Translating regulations into Board-level advice. Board Advisory Identifying governance risks; Structuring Board decision-making; Advising on directors’ responsibilities; Ensuring appropriate disclosures. 11. What AI May Automate—and What It May Not Activity Likely technological impact Compliance calendars High automation potential Deadline tracking High automation potential Standard filings High automation potential Document extraction High automation potential Regulatory monitoring Increasing automation First-level legal research Increasing automation Routine documentation Increasing automation Compliance dashboards Increasing automation Complex legal interpretation Human judgement remains important Board advice Human judgement remains important Ethical decisions Human accountability remains important Governance strategy Human judgement remains important Regulatory negotiation Human interaction remains important Director counselling Human judgement remains important The distinction is critical. Automation can reduce the amount of manual compliance work without eliminating the need for a professional who understands the consequences of compliance decisions. 12. The Skill Set of the 2040 CS The successful CS of the future may need a substantially broader skill set. Legal Knowledge Companies Act, securities laws, insolvency, FEMA, competition law and sectoral regulations. Financial Knowledge Financial statements, valuation, fundraising, capital markets and corporate finance. Business Knowledge Understanding how the company’s commercial model operates. Technology AI, automation, RegTech, cybersecurity and data governance. Governance Board dynamics, ethics, accountability and stakeholder management. Communication The ability to convert complex regulatory requirements into clear business advice. The future professional therefore may not be: Law + Compliance but rather: Law + Business + Finance + Technology + Governance + Judgement 13. 2015 vs 2026 vs 2040 Parameter 2015 2026 2040 — Potential Direction Primary identity Company Secretary Company Secretary & Governance Professional Strategic Governance Professional Core focus Compliance Compliance + Governance Governance + Technology + Risk Board involvement Meetings & documentation Advisory Strategic governance Regulatory environment Companies Act + emerging LODR framework Multiple regulators Highly interconnected regulation Compliance Periodic/manual Digital Continuous/AI-assisted Technology Basic digital systems Automation + AI AI-native systems Documentation Significant manual work Digitised Largely automated Risk Compliance-focused Compliance + governance risk Predictive risk monitoring Capital markets Developing Major professional area Technology-driven M&A Corporate-law compliance Transaction advisory Complex strategic transactions ESG Emerging Established governance area Integrated governance Cybersecurity Limited role Growing importance Major Board-level issue Data governance Limited Emerging Strategic AI governance Not applicable Emerging Major governance function Professional value Compliance knowledge Law + governance + business Law + technology + judgement 14. The Changing Definition of “Compliance” There is also a philosophical change in the profession. In a traditional compliance model, the question is: “Has the company complied?” In a modern governance model: “What regulatory consequences arise from the company’s proposed action?” In a technology-enabled governance model: “Can the governance system identify the risk before the decision creates a compliance problem?” This represents a movement from reactive compliance to proactive governance. 15. From Record Keeper to Governance Adviser The phrase “Company Secretary” can sometimes create the perception that the profession is primarily administrative. The statutory framework and modern regulatory environment suggest otherwise. The CS may simultaneously interact with: Board of Directors ↓ MD / CEO ↓ CFO / Senior Management ↓ Legal & Finance Teams ↓ SEBI / Stock Exchanges / MCA / Other Regulators ↓ Shareholders & Investors This position gives the CS a unique perspective across the corporate structure. The professional can see how a decision moves from: Business Proposal → Legal Analysis → Board Approval → Regulatory Disclosure → Implementation → Governance Monitoring That integrated perspective is one of the profession’s potential competitive advantages. 16. The Independence Question As the role becomes more important, professional independence becomes increasingly significant. A CS may have to communicate an uncomfortable regulatory or governance position to senior management or the Board. The value of the function therefore depends not only on technical knowledge but also on: Professional integrity; Independence of judgement; Ethical conduct; Courage to escalate concerns; Confidentiality; and Ability to communicate difficult issues objectively. Technology cannot completely substitute these attributes. 17. Implications for CS Students and Young Professionals The changing profession also changes the preparation required of future Company Secretaries. A CS student who focuses exclusively on memorising provisions may find that approach insufficient for a technology-driven professional environment. The future-oriented skill set should include: Core Company Law + SEBI + Secretarial Standards Add Finance + Accounting + Tax + FEMA + IBC Then M&A + Capital Markets + Due Diligence And increasingly AI + RegTech + Data Governance + Cybersecurity Finally Communication + Board Advisory + Business Strategy The objective should be to become capable of answering not merely: “Which section applies?” but also: “What does this provision mean for the company’s proposed transaction, what risks arise, what approvals are required and what should the Board know before proceeding?” 18. Conclusion The evolution of the Company Secretary profession can be summarised in three stages. 2015 Compliance Professional The profession was moving from traditional secretarial work towards statutory corporate governance under the Companies Act, 2013 and the emerging securities-market framework. 2026 Governance and Regulatory Professional The CS increasingly operates across corporate law, securities regulation, Board governance, capital markets, transactions, compliance and regulatory risk. 2040 Potentially a Strategic Governance Professional If current trends continue, technology may automate a substantial portion of routine compliance work. The professional value of the CS may consequently shift further toward judgement, governance, ethics, accountability, technology oversight and Board-level advisory. The future of the Company Secretary profession therefore should not be viewed simply through the question: “Will AI replace the CS?” A more useful question is: “How will AI change what the Board expects from the CS?” The likely direction is not from CS to no CS, but from: Compliance → Governance → Strategic Governance The Company Secretary of the future may be less of a person who merely ensures that a company has complied with the law and more of a professional who helps ensure that the company makes decisions within a sound framework of law, governance, risk, ethics and accountability. That may ultimately be the most important evolution of the profession. Author’s Note: The 2015 and 2026 portions of this article are based on the statutory and regulatory framework applicable to those periods. The 2040 portion is a forward-looking scenario and should not be read as a prediction of future law or regulation. The actual scope of the profession in 2040 will depend on legislative, regulatory, technological and economic developments. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies Act 2013Company Secretary Author Info Name: Prasenjit Datta Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Location: Howrah, West Bengal Articles Published: 4 View full profile → More from Prasenjit Datta MGT-6 Form Filing Process and Key Requirements January 5, 2025 Dematerialization of Shares in Private Companies – Procedure December 25, 2024 Blessing of CSR for recent development in modern India November 12, 2023 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in CA, CS, CMA ICAI Announces ISA Assessment Test on 28 November 2026 in CBT Mode September 24, 2026 ICAI Live Virtual Revisionary Classes for CA Intermediate January 2027 Exams September 24, 2026 ICAI Warns Against Wrong UDIN Category to Bypass 60 Tax Audit Ceiling September 23, 2026 Analysis of Notifications and Circulars for Week Ending 13th September 2026 September 19, 2026 Service Concession Arrangements under Ind AS 115: Accounting for BOT Bus Stops September 17, 2026 ICAI Guidance Note on Financial Statements of Non-Corporate Entities: Phase II from April 1, 2026 September 17, 2026