Summary: A GST departmental audit should be approached as a detailed review of the taxpayer’s compliance and supporting records rather than merely as an exercise aimed at identifying additional tax. Under Section 65 of the CGST Act, the department may audit a registered person, with the formal process generally commencing through Form GST ADT-01. Effective preparation begins with reconciliation of books with GST returns, particularly turnover and input tax credit. Differences between books, GSTR-3B and GSTR-2B should be analysed rather than automatically treated as tax shortfalls or ineligible ITC because timing differences, credit notes, amendments and accounting entries may explain them. Audit attention commonly extends to turnover, ITC, reverse charge mechanism (RCM), classification, tax rates, exempt supplies, e-invoices, e-way bills, refunds and exports. Documentation is equally important: invoices, agreements, workings and other supporting records can determine whether a taxpayer’s position can be properly explained. An audit observation should also be distinguished from a final tax demand, since the taxpayer has an opportunity to explain discrepancies and furnish supporting material. A practical approach is to classify issues as genuine tax errors, reconciliation differences, procedural issues or questions involving interpretation of law and respond according to the nature of each issue. Table of Contents▸ GST Departmental Audit: More Than an Exercise to Find Additional Tax Start With Reconciliation of Books and GST Returns Areas That Commonly Receive Attention During GST Audit Documentation Can Make a Significant Difference Audit Observation Is Not the Same as a Final Tax Demand Classify GST Audit Issues Before Responding Genuine Tax Error Reconciliation Difference Legal or Interpretational Issue The Objective Should Be a Correct and Explainable Tax Position Conclusion Show all 11 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); GST Departmental Audit: More Than an Exercise to Find Additional Tax Whenever a taxpayer receives a GST departmental audit notice, the first reaction is often the same “Now what will the department find?” In my experience, this is where the approach to an audit often goes wrong. A departmental audit should not be looked at only as an exercise to find additional tax. It is, in many ways, a detailed review of the taxpayer’s GST compliance and the records supporting it. Under Section 65 of the CGST Act, the department can conduct an audit of a registered person. The formal process generally begins with Form GST ADT-01. But from a professional’s point of view, the real work starts before the documents are submitted. Start With Reconciliation of Books and GST Returns The first thing I prefer to look at is the basic reconciliation-books versus GST returns. A difference in turnover immediately catches attention, but a difference does not necessarily mean that tax has been short paid. Sale of fixed assets, credit notes, timing differences, non-GST income and other accounting entries can all create differences. What matters is whether the difference can be properly explained. The same is the case for ITC. A difference between the books, GSTR-3B and GSTR-2B should not be accepted or rejected merely on the basis of the difference. It needs to be understood. Sometimes it is a timing issue; sometimes it may relate to amendments or credit notes, while in other cases there may actually be an eligibility issue. This is where a proper reconciliation becomes very important. Areas That Commonly Receive Attention During GST Audit In most audits, certain areas naturally receive more attention- turnover, ITC, RCM, classification and rate of tax, exempt supplies, e-invoices, e-way bills, refunds and exports. With the amount of data now available with the department, a difference can be identified quite easily. But the data generally tells only one part of the story. The actual transaction, accounting treatment and supporting documents are equally important. Documentation Can Make a Significant Difference One thing I have noticed during audits is that documentation can make a significant difference. A taxpayer may have taken a perfectly reasonable position, but if the supporting invoice, agreement, working or other document is not readily available, explaining that position can become unnecessarily difficult. I therefore believe that GST records should be maintained with the audit in mind, not because an audit is always expected, but because a properly maintained record makes day-to-day compliance easier as well. Audit Observation Is Not the Same as a Final Tax Demand Another point which is often misunderstood is the difference between an audit observation and a final tax demand. If the officer identifies a discrepancy, the taxpayer gets an opportunity to explain the position and provide supporting documents. In many cases, what initially appears to be a tax issue turns out to be a reconciliation or factual issue once the complete details are examined. Of course, this does not mean that every observation can or should be contested. If there is a genuine short payment of tax or ineligible ITC, it is better to recognise it and deal with it appropriately. At the same time, every departmental observation should not automatically be accepted either. Classify GST Audit Issues Before Responding From my experience, it helps to broadly classify an issue into four categories -a genuine tax error, a reconciliation difference, a procedural issue or a matter involving interpretation of law. The approach to each will naturally be different. Genuine Tax Error A genuine error may require corrective action. Reconciliation Difference A reconciliation difference may only need proper explanation and supporting records. Legal or Interpretational Issue A legal issue may require reference to the relevant provisions, notifications, circulars or judicial decisions. The Objective Should Be a Correct and Explainable Tax Position Ultimately, I do not think the objective of a GST audit should be to somehow ensure that the department raises “zero observations“. The more important objective is to ensure that the taxpayer’s position is correct, explainable and properly supported. GST has changed considerably over the years, and the audit process has changed with it. Today, the department can compare information from multiple sources within a very short time. For taxpayers, this makes regular reconciliation much more important than waiting until an audit notice arrives. Conclusion After handling GST matters from a professional perspective, one simple thought has stayed with me: “A transaction is not truly well documented until you can explain it clearly and support that explanation with records.” That, in my view, is what a GST departmental audit ultimately comes down to facts, records and the correct interpretation of the law. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Audit Author Info Name: CA Jacky Bajaj Qualification: CA in Job / Business Location: Thane, Maharashtra Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from CA Jacky Bajaj Gist of some GST Notifications dated 31/03/2023 April 1, 2023 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Admitted Receipt of GST Show Cause Notice Defeats No-Notice Plea: Gauhati HC October 1, 2026 Madras High Court: KVB Sponsorship Demand Fails as Extended Limitation Was Unproved October 1, 2026 Section 74 Demand Without Mandatory Show Cause Notice Invalid: GSTAT Kolkata October 1, 2026 Documentary GST Fraud Probe Does Not Automatically Justify Arrest: Telangana HC October 1, 2026 ₹7.26 Crore ITC Demand: Section 16(2)(c) ITC Condition Constitutionally Valid: Delhi HC October 1, 2026 Rule 86A ITC Block Not Automatically Lifted Despite Fresh Hearing Opportunity: Karnataka HC October 1, 2026