Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The Financial Intelligence Unit-India (FIU-IND), Ministry of Finance, has issued notices for non-compliance to fifteen Virtual Digital Assets Service Providers (VDA SPs) under Section 13 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA). The entities include Weex, Blofin, Rezorex, Bitunix, DigiFinex, Toobit, XT.com, Latoken, WOO X, Pionex, ChangeNow, SimpleSwap, Fixedfloat, WhiteBIT and Guardarian. The Director, FIU-IND, has also issued notices in respect of these entities for takedown of their applications/URLs for public access under Section 79(3)(b) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 read with Rule 3(1)(d) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Amendment Rules, 2025, where the entities were found to be operating illegally without complying with applicable PMLA provisions in India. VDA SPs were brought within the Anti-Money Laundering/Counter Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) framework under the PMLA in March 2023. VDA SPs operating in India, whether offshore or onshore, and undertaking specified activities such as exchange between virtual digital assets and fiat currencies, transfer of virtual digital assets, or safekeeping or administration of virtual digital assets, are required to register with FIU-IND as Reporting Entities and comply with applicable PMLA and Rules obligations. These obligations are activity-based and are not contingent upon physical presence in India. The Government has also cautioned the public that crypto products and NFTs are unregulated and can be highly risky, with potentially no regulatory recourse for losses arising from such transactions. Ministry of Finance Financial Intelligence Unit- India (FIU-IND) issues notices for non-compliance to 15 Virtual Digital Assets Service providers (VDA SPs) under Section 13 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PML) Act, 2002 Posted On: 09 SEP 2026 11:12AM by PIB Delhi As part of compliance action against non-compliant entities, the Director, Financial Intelligence Unit-India (FIU-IND) has issued notices for non-compliance to following fifteen (15) Virtual Digital Assets Service Providers (VDA SPs) under Section 13 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) as under:- S. No Trade Name Entity Name 1 Weex Weex International Exchange LTD 2 Blofin BLF Global Limited 3 Rezorex RezorEx 4 Bitunix Bitunix LLC 5 DigiFinex DigiFinex Ltd 6 Toobit Hopeful Technology Co. Ltd. 7 XT.com Fibtc Ltd/ XT TECHNICAL PTE. LTD. 8 Latoken LAtrade Ltd 9 WOO X Wootech Limited 10 Pionex Marketa Trading Inc. 11 ChangeNow CHN Group LLC 12 SimpleSwap SimpleSwap LTD 13 Fixedfloat FFGX Group LLC 14 WhiteBIT UAB Clear White Technologies 15 Guardarian FinSeven CZ Further, the Director, FIU-IND, being the nodal officer in pursuance of Section 79(3)(b) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 read with rule 3(1)(d) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Amendment Rules, 2025, has also issued notices with respect to the aforesaid entities to takedown the application/URLs for public access which have been found to be operating illegally without complying with the relevant provisions of the PMLA in India. Virtual Digital Assets Service Providers (VDA SPs) were brought into the ambit of Anti Money Laundering/Counter Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) framework under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 in March 2023. The VDA SPs operating in India (whether offshore or onshore) and engaged in activities like exchange between virtual digital assets and fiat currencies, transfer of virtual digital assets, safekeeping or administration of virtual digital assets or instruments enabling control over virtual digital assets etc. are required to be registered with FIU-IND as Reporting Entity and comply with the set of obligations as mandated under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002(PMLA) and Rules framed there under. These obligations are activity-based and are not contingent on physical presence of the entity in India. The regulation casts reporting, record keeping, and other obligations on the VDA SPs under the PML Act which also includes registration with the FIU-IND. It is pertinent to mention for the safety and awareness of general public that the Crypto products and NFTs are unregulated and can be highly risky. There may be no regulatory recourse for any loss from such transactions. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Prevention of Money Laundering ActVirtual Digital Assets Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance Prem Dharmani on Corporate Governance and Compliance: Key Considerations for Modern AI Businesses September 9, 2026 Benefits of Registering a Startup in India | DPIIT Tax Exemptions 2026 September 9, 2026 Is the Zero Depreciation Add-on Worth It for Your Car Insurance? September 9, 2026 IFSCA Unifies Insider Trading and Market Abuse Rules in IFSC September 8, 2026 IFSCA Expands Rating Withdrawal Flexibility for IFSC CRAs September 8, 2026 Bank Lost Title Deeds: Bombay HC Awards ₹5,000 Daily Until Reconstruction September 8, 2026