1666 K Street NW Washington, DC 20006 Office: 202-207-9100 Fax: 202-862-8430 www.pcaobus.org PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 By this Order Instituting Disciplinary Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Sanctions (“Order”), the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board” or “PCAOB”) is: (1)censuring TPS Thayer LLC (“TPS Thayer,” the “Firm,” or “Respondent”); (2)imposing a civil money penalty in the amount of $100,000 upon TPS Thayer; and (3)requiring the Firm to undertake certain contingent remedial actions as described in Section IV of this Order. 1 The Board is imposing these sanctions based on TPS Thayer’s conduct in connection with its use of audit work performed in a substantial role capacity by an accounting firm that was not registered with the Board in five of the Firm’s issuer audits. The Firm failed to appropriately plan the five audits and reasonably supervise the unregistered firm. In addition, the Firm failed to properly disclose the unregistered accounting firm’s participation in Form AP filings with the Board and in communications to the audit committees of the issuers. I. The Board deems it necessary and appropriate, for the protection of investors and to further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports, that disciplinary proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Respondent 1 The Firm filed a Form 1-WD on April 7, 2025, requesting leave to withdraw from registration with the Board. That request will be addressed by the Board in accordance with PCAOB Rule 2107, Withdrawal from Registration. Order Instituting Disciplinary Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Sanctions In the Matter ofTPS Thayer LLC, Respondent. Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 2 pursuant to Section 105(c) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the “Act”), and PCAOB Rule 5200(a)(1) and (2). II. In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, and pursuant to PCAOB Rule 5205, the Firm has submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) that the Board has determined to accept. Solely for purposes of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Board, or to which the Board is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Board’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject matter of these proceedings, which is admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order as set forth below. 2 III. On the basis of Respondent’s Offer, the Board finds that: A.Respondent 1.TPS Thayer LLC is a public accounting firm headquartered in Sugar Land, Texas. The Firm is licensed to practice public accounting by the Texas State Board of Public Accountancy (license no. C10714). At all relevant times, the Firm was registered with the Board pursuant to Section 102 of the Act and PCAOB rules. B.Issuers 2.HuadiInternational Group Co., Ltd. (“Huadi”) was, at all relevant times, a holding company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands with its principal place of business in Wenzhou, People’s Republic of China (“China”). Huadi’s public filings disclose that its subsidiaries are engaged in the manufacturing and sale of steel products. At all relevant times, Huadi was an “issuer,” as that term is defined by Section 2(a)(7) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 1001(i)(iii). 3.Ostin Technology Group Co., Ltd. (“Ostin”) was, at all relevant times, a holding company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands with its principal place of business in Nanjing, China. Ostin’s public filings disclose that its subsidiaries are engaged in supplying display modules and polarizers in China mainly for use in consumer electronics, commercial 2 The findings herein are made pursuant to the Firm’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 3 liquid-crystal displays (LCDs), and automotive displays. At all relevant times, Ostin was an “issuer,” as that term is defined by Section 2(a)(7) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 1001(i)(iii). C.Other Relevant Entity 4. Firm A is a limited liability partnership headquartered in Beijing, China. At all relevant times, Firm A was a “public accounting firm,” as that term is defined in Section 2(a)(11) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(iii), and an “associated person of a registered public accounting firm,” as that term is defined in Section 2(a)(9) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(i). Firm A is not, and at all relevant times was not, registered with the Board. D.Summary 5.This matter concerns TPS Thayer’s failure to reasonably supervise an unregistered firm that played a substantial role on certain of its audits, and violations of PCAOB rules and standards in connection with its use of the work of the unregistered firm. 3 6.TPS Thayer improperly allowed Firm A, which was not registered with the Board, to play a substantial role in five issuer audits – the audits of the financial statements of Ostin for fiscal years ended September 30, 2020, 2021, and 2022, and the audits of the financial statements of Huadi for fiscal years ended September 30, 2021 and 2022 (collectively, the “Audits”). Firm A was required to register with the Board before it played a substantial role in any issuer audits. TPS Thayer, however, failed to take adequate steps to ensure that Firm A’s participation in the Audits was consistent with PCAOB registration requirements, that is, that Firm A did not “play a substantial role” in the Audits because it was not registered. 4 7.Indeed, Firm A’s participation in the Audits in most instances far exceeded the “20% or more” substantial role participation threshold, as it incurred at least 49% of the total audit hours in four of the five Audits. Due to the Firm’s inadequate planning and oversight of Firm A’s participation in the Audits, TPS Thayer failed to reasonably supervise its associated 3 All references to PCAOB rules and standards in this Order are to the versions of those rules and standards, and to their organization and numbering, in effect at the time of the conduct discussed herein. 4 See PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(ii), Play a Substantial Role in the Preparation or Furnishing of an Audit Report (defining what it means to “play a substantial role,” including, in part, performing services for which the engagement hours or fees constitute 20% or more of the total engagement hours or fees provided by the principal auditor in connection with the issuance of its audit report). Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 4 person, Firm A, pursuant to Section 105(c)(6) of the Act, and failed to comply with PCAOB rules and standards concerning due professional care and audit planning. 8.In addition, the Firm failed to make required disclosures of Firm A’s participation in the Audits to the issuers’ audit committees and in its Form AP filings with the Board. 9.Finally, the violations described above demonstrate that TPS Thayer failed to establish and implement adequate quality control policies and procedures concerning the use and appropriate disclosure of the work of other accounting firms, in violation of PCAOB quality control standards. E.Requirements Related to Playing a Substantial Role in an Audit 10.Section 102(a) of the Act makes it “unlawful” for an accounting firm that is not registered with the Board “to prepare or issue, or to participate in the preparation or issuance of, any audit report with respect to any issuer, broker, or dealer.” 5 11.In addition, Section 106(a)(2) of the Act states: The Board may, by rule, determine that a foreign public accounting firm (or a class of such firms) that does not issue audit reports nonetheless plays such a substantial role in the preparation and furnishing of such reports for particular issuers, brokers, or dealers, that it is necessary or appropriate, in light of the purposes of this Act and in the public interest or for the protection of investors, that such firm (or class of firms) should be treated as a public accounting firm (or firms) for purposes of registration under, and oversight by the Board in accordance with, this subchapter. 6 12.In furtherance of these provisions, the Board adopted PCAOB Rule 2100, Registration Requirements for Public Accounting Firms, which requires any accounting firm, foreign or domestic, that “plays a substantial role in the preparation or furnishing of an audit report with respect to any issuer, broker, or dealer” to register with the Board. 13.PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(ii) defines the phrase “play a substantial role in the preparation or furnishing of an audit report” to mean, among other things, “perform[ing] material services that a public accounting firm uses or relies on in issuing all or part of its audit 5 15 U.S.C. § 7212(a). 6 15 U.S.C. § 7216(a)(2). Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 5 report.” 7 The phrase “material services” means “services, for which the engagement hours or fees constitute 20% or more of the total engagement hours or fees, respectively, provided by the principal auditor in connection with the issuance of all or part of its audit report.” 8 F.Background 14.In 2019, Firm A took steps to submit a registration application to the Board. However, it did not complete the registration process. As a result, Firm A has remained unregistered and may not play a substantial role in the preparation or furnishing of an audit report for an issuer, a broker, or a dealer. 15.TPS Thayer was engaged to perform the audits of Ostin and Huadi, both of which have operations in China. The Firm used Firm A in a substantial role to complete the Audits. Specifically, the Firm staffed the Audits with TPS Thayer personnel, including engagement partners, engagement quality review partners, and other engagement team members mostly based in the United States, who oversaw the work of Firm A, which performed various audit procedures on the Audits. 9 TPS Thayer supervised Firm A’s work under AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement. 16.For each of the Audits, Firm A exceeded the 20% of total hours threshold and therefore played a substantial role. As shown in the table below, Firm A’s participation in these five audits ranged from 33% to 59% of the total audit hours. 7 PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(ii)(1). 8 PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(ii), Note 1. 9 For example, Firm A generally performed substantive procedures for significant accounts, such as revenue, accounts receivable, and inventory. In addition, Firm A performed procedures that included journal entry testing, coordinating audit confirmations, performing walkthroughs, preparing planning work papers, and coordinating with the issuers regarding requests and questions, among other procedures. Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 6 Issuer FYE Percent of Total Audit Hours Incurred by Unregistered Firm Ostin September 30, 2020 33% Huadi September 30, 2021 52% Ostin September 30, 2021 58% Huadi September 30, 2022 59% Ostin September 30, 2022 49% G.TPS Thayer Failed to Reasonably Supervise Firm A and Violated PCAOB Rules and Standards 17.TPS Thayer failed to reasonably supervise Firm A’s participation in the Audits in a manner designed to avoid violations of Section 102(a) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 2100, and TPS Thayer likewise failed to properly plan the Audits. i.TPS Thayer Failed to Reasonably Supervise Firm A 18.Section 105(c)(6) of the Act provides that the Board may impose sanctions on a registered public accounting firm if the Board finds that (1) the firm has failed to reasonably supervise an associated person, either as required by the rules of the Board relating to auditing or quality control standards, or otherwise, with a view to preventing violations of the Act or the rules of the Board; and (2) such associated person commits a violation of the Act or Board rules. 19.Under Section 2(a)(9) of the Act, the term “person associated with a registered public accounting firm” includes “any . . . entity that, in connection with the preparation or issuance of any audit report—(i) shares in the profits of, or receives compensation in any other form from, that firm; or (ii) participates as agent or otherwise on behalf of such accounting firm in any activity of that firm.” 20.Because Firm A performed audit work at the direction, and under the supervision, of TPS Thayer, Firm A acted as an “entity that, in connection with the preparation or issuance of [TPS Thayer’s] audit report[s,] . . . participate[d] as agent or otherwise on behalf of [TPS Thayer].” In addition, Firm A received payment from TPS Thayer, through an intermediary, in exchange for the services it provided in connection with the Audits. Thus, Firm Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 7 A “share[d] in the profits of, or receive[d] compensation” from TPS Thayer in connection with the preparation and issuance of TPS Thayer’s audit reports. Accordingly, Firm A was an “associated person” of TPS Thayer during the Audits. 21.TPS Thayer had a responsibility to reasonably supervise its associated persons during the Audits, but failed to do so. 22.During the Audits, TPS Thayer knew or should have known that PCAOB rules required substantial role participants to be PCAOB-registered. TPS Thayer also knew or should have known from readily available public information, such as the PCAOB’s website, that Firm A was not registered with the Board. TPS Thayer further knew, or should have known, including from its supervision of the Audits and information provided by Firm A, that Firm A significantly exceeded the 20% participation threshold in the Audits. 23.However, the Firm failed to adequately supervise the Audits to ensure that Firm A’s participation complied with applicable professional standards and regulatory requirements. 24.Because Firm A incurred more than 20% of the total audit hours in each of the Audits, it performed material services used by TPS Thayer in issuing the Firm’s audit reports. Firm A therefore violated Section 102(a) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 2100 by playing a substantial role in the Audits without being registered with the Board. 25.As detailed above, TPS Thayer failed to reasonably supervise Firm A under Section 105(c)(6) of the Act with a view to preventing Firm A’s violations of PCAOB registration requirements. ii.TPS Thayer Violated PCAOB Rules and Standards 26.In connection with the preparation or issuance of an audit report, PCAOB rules require that a registered public accounting firm and its associated persons comply with the Board’s auditing and related professional practice standards. 10 27.PCAOB standards provide that, as part of audit planning, the auditor should establish an overall audit strategy. 11 The auditor should take into account “[t]he factors that are significant in directing the activities of the engagement team” and “[t]he nature, timing, and 10 PCAOB Rule 3100, Compliance with Auditing and Related Professional Practice Standards; PCAOB Rule 3200, Auditing Standards. 11 AS 2101.08, Audit Planning. Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 8 extent of resources necessary to perform the engagement.” 12 PCAOB standards also require that “[d]ue professional care is to be exercised in the planning and performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.” 13 28.In establishing the overall audit strategy for the Audits, TPS Thayer failed to adequately take into account: (1) the fact that Firm A was an unregistered firm whose substantial role participation in the Audits would constitute a violation of PCAOB rules; and (2) the nature of the resources necessary to perform the Audits, insofar as those resources included the involvement of an unregistered firm. As a result of these failures, TPS Thayer did not engage in adequate planning to ensure that Firm A’s participation would be consistent with PCAOB registration requirements. 29.Accordingly, TPS Thayer violated AS 2101. TPS Thayer also violated AS 1015 by failing to exercise due professional care in planning the Audits. H.TPS Thayer Violated PCAOB Rules Regarding the Filing of Form AP 30.PCAOB rules provide that, “[f]or each audit report it issues for an issuer, a registered public accounting firm must file with the Board a report on Form AP in accordance with the instructions to that form.” 14 The Form AP Instructions for “Part IV – Responsibility for the Audit Is Not Divided” require that an auditor who uses another accounting firm that incurs more than 5% of the total hours “[s]tate the legal name of [the] other accounting firm[] and the extent of participation in the audit.” 31.TPS Thayer failed to report Firm A’s participation, which exceeded 5% of the total hours, in its Form AP filings with respect to each of the Audits. 32.Accordingly, TPS Thayer violated PCAOB Rule 3211. I.TPS Thayer Violated PCAOB Standards Regarding Audit Committee Communications 33.Pursuant to AS 1301.01, Communications with Audit Committees, an auditor should communicate to a company’s audit committee certain matters related to the conduct of 12 Id. at .09. 13 AS 1015.01, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work. 14 PCAOB Rule 3211(a), Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 9 an audit, including the overall audit strategy. 15 As part of communicating the overall audit strategy to the audit committee, “the auditor should communicate . . . [t]he names, locations, and planned responsibilities of other independent public accounting firms or other persons, who are not employed by the auditor, that perform audit procedures in the current period audit[.]” 16 34.However, the Firm failed to communicate to the audit committees of Ostin and Huadi Firm A’s name, location, and planned responsibilities in connection with any of the Audits. 35.Accordingly, TPS Thayer violated AS 1301. J.TPS Thayer Violated PCAOB Quality Control Standards 36.PCAOB rules require that a registered firm comply with PCAOB quality control standards. 17 Those standards require a firm to “have a system of quality control for its accounting and auditing practice.” 18 As part of this requirement, “[p]olicies and procedures should be established to provide the firm with reasonable assurance that the work performed by engagement personnel meets applicable professional standards, regulatory requirements, and the firm’s standards of quality.” 19 37.Although TPS Thayer had quality control policies and procedures in place at the time of the Audits, those policies did not address PCAOB rules relating to substantial role participation by other accounting firms. Moreover, TPS Thayer’s failures to reasonably supervise Firm A’s participation during the five Audits demonstrate that TPS Thayer failed to establish and implement adequate policies and procedures to provide the Firm with reasonable assurance that the work performed by engagement personnel met applicable regulatory requirements when using other accounting firms. 38.TPS Thayer’s lack of adequate policies and procedures related to the use of other accounting firms resulted in the Firm using an unregistered firm in a substantial role capacity in 15 AS 1301.01, .09. 16 Id. at .10d (footnote omitted). 17 PCAOB Rule 3400T, Interim Quality Control Standards. 18 QC § 20.01, System of Quality Control for a CPA Firm’s Accounting and Auditing Practice. 19 QC § 20.17. Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 10 the Audits and failing to make appropriate disclosures on Form AP and to issuer audit committees. 39.Accordingly, TPS Thayer failed to comply with QC § 20. IV. In view of the foregoing, and to protect the interests of investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports, the Board determines it appropriate to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: A.Pursuant to Section 105(c)(4)(E) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 5300(a)(5), TPS Thayer is hereby censured. B.Pursuant to Section 105(c)(4)(D) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 5300(a)(4), a civil money penalty in the amount of $100,000 is imposed upon TPS Thayer. 1.All funds collected by the Board as a result of the assessment of this civil money penalty will be used in accordance with Section 109(c)(2) of the Act. 2.The Firm shall pay this civil money penalty within ten days of the issuance of this Order by: (1) wire transfer pursuant to instructions provided by PCAOB staff; or (2) United States Postal Service money order, bank money order, certified check, or bank cashier’s check (a) made payable to the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, (b) delivered to the Office of Finance, Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, 1666 K Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20006, and (c) submitted under a cover letter, which identifies the Firm as a respondent in these proceedings, sets forth the title and PCAOB release number of these proceedings, and states that payment is made pursuant to this Order, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Office of the Secretary, Attention: Phoebe W. Brown, Secretary, Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, 1666 K Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20006. 3.If timely payment is not made, interest shall accrue at the federal debt collection rate set for the current quarter pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. Payments shall be applied first to post-Order interest. 4.Respondent understands that its failure to pay the civil money penalty described above may result in summary suspension of the Firm’s registration, Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 11 pursuant to PCAOB Rule 5304(a), following written notice to Respondent at the address on file with the PCAOB at the time of the issuance of this Order. 5.By consenting to this Order, Respondent understands and acknowledges that failure to pay the civil money penalty imposed upon it may alone be grounds to deny any application, pursuant to PCAOB Rule 2106, for registration with the Board. C.Pursuant to Section 105(c)(4)(G) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 5300(a)(9), if the Firm withdraws from registration,the Firm is required: 1.Before filing with the Board any future registration application, to establish, revise, or supplement, as necessary, quality control policies and procedures to provide the Firm with reasonable assurance that its personnel and other associated persons will comply with applicable regulatory requirements related to the Firm’s use and disclosure of audit work performed by other accounting firms. 2.To provide with any future registration application a written certification, signed by the individual ultimately responsible for the Firm’s system of quality control, to the Director of the PCAOB’s Division of Enforcement and Investigations, stating that the Firm has complied with paragraph IV.C.1 above. The certification shall identify the actions undertaken to satisfy the conditions specified above, provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance. The Firm shall also submit such additional evidence of, and information concerning, compliance as the staff of the Division of Enforcement and Investigations or the staff of the Division of Registration and Inspections may reasonably request. D.Pursuant to Section 105(c)(4)(G) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 5300(a)(9),if the Firm withdraws its pending Form 1-WD prior to it becoming effective,the Firm is required: 1.Within 90 days of the Firm’s withdrawal of its Form 1-WD, to establish, revise, or supplement, as necessary, policies and procedures to provide the Firm with reasonable assurance that its personnel and other associated persons will comply with applicable regulatory requirements related to the Firm’s use and disclosure of audit work performed by other accounting firms. Order PCAOB Release No. 105-2025-037 December 4, 2025 12 2.Within 120 days of the Firm’s withdrawal of its Form 1-WD, to provide a written certification, signed by the individual ultimately responsible for the Firm’s system of quality control, to the Director of the PCAOB’s Division of Enforcement and Investigations, stating that the Firm has complied with paragraph IV.D.1 above. The certification shall identify the actions undertaken to satisfy the conditions specified above, provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance. The Firm shall also submit such additional evidence of, and information concerning, compliance as the staff of the Division of Enforcement and Investigations may reasonably request. ISSUED BY THE BOARD. /s/ Phoebe W. Brown ________________________ Phoebe W. Brown Secretary December 4, 2025