Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); The Bombay High Court has overturned a previous order by the Maharashtra Real Estate Appellate Tribunal (MahaREAT) concerning the Turf View Project in Mahalaxmi, Mumbai. The court’s decision, delivered on 29 September 2026, restores the de-registration of the project and the change of promoter, as originally ordered in 2022 and 2021, respectively. This development marks a significant turn of events for Prestige Estates Projects Limited, the company involved in the project. The Turf View Project had been embroiled in legal disputes following MahaREAT’s decision to reverse the de-registration and promoter change. The High Court’s ruling effectively reinstates the regulatory status quo as per the earlier orders, thereby resolving the disputes among the involved parties. The resolution of these issues is expected to bring stability and clarity to the project’s future, which had been uncertain due to the ongoing legal proceedings. Prestige Estates Projects Limited, a prominent player in the real estate sector, has welcomed the court’s decision. The company, headquartered in Bangalore, has been actively involved in the legal process to ensure the project’s regulatory compliance and alignment with the original directives. The restoration of the previous orders is seen as a favourable outcome for Prestige Estates, allowing them to proceed with their plans for the Turf View Project without further legal hindrance. Analysts suggest that this ruling could have broader implications for the real estate sector in Maharashtra, particularly concerning the enforcement of regulatory decisions and the role of appellate tribunals. The resolution of this case may encourage other developers facing similar challenges to seek judicial intervention to uphold regulatory decisions, thus reinforcing the importance of legal recourse in the real estate industry. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Hero MotoCorp reports 12% increase in September dispatches ahead of festive season October 1, 2026