Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14714 Case Name Balwinder Singh Vs State of Punjab & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Balwinder Singh Vs State of Punjab & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) Summary: The Supreme Court granted bail to Balwinder Singh after considering his prolonged incarceration, the substantial number of prosecution witnesses still remaining and the resulting likelihood that the criminal trial would not conclude in the near future. The proceedings arose after the Punjab & Haryana High Court, while considering the petitioner’s fourth regular bail petition under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, declined bail on 30.04.2024 because his previous petition had been dismissed on merits and no material change in circumstances had been demonstrated. The High Court nevertheless took note of his custody period and directed the Trial Court to make earnest efforts to conclude the trial positively within five months. Before the Supreme Court, it was initially pointed out that only seven of the cited 47 witnesses had been examined and that the petitioner had been in custody for nearly four years. Subsequently, 21 prosecution witnesses had testified, while the prosecution proposed to examine another 17 witnesses after dropping nine earlier cited witnesses. The Supreme Court observed that an accused has a right to a fair trial: while a hurried trial is undesirable because it may not provide sufficient time to prepare the defence, an inordinate delay in concluding the trial infringes the right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Noting also that six co-accused had been granted bail, the Court considered it appropriate to grant bail so that the trial process itself did not become punishment, particularly when Indian jurisprudence recognises the presumption of innocence. Bail was made subject to the petitioner’s appearance on all trial dates, cooperation in expeditious completion of the trial and maintaining distance from witnesses. FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER 1. Heard Mr. Karan Dewan, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner. The State of Punjab is represented by Mr. Siddhant Sharma, learned counsel. The respondent No. 2 (informant) is represented by Mr. Arvinder Singh, learned counsel. 2. Notice in this case was issued on 15.07.2024 with the following order: “xx xx xx The counsel submits that 6 of the accused have been granted bail in the present matter. Moreover, only 7 out of the cited 47 witnesses have been examined so far in the Trial. The counsel then points out that the petitioner has been in custody for nearly 4 years since he was arrested on 26.06.2020. Also although the direction to conclude the trial in the five months was given by the High Court on 30.04.2024, that is unlikely, looking at the pace of the Trial. xx xx xx” 3. Since then, counter affidavits are filed by both the State and the respondent No. The State counsel submits that there is no material change of circumstances when bail was refused to the petitioner in 2023. 4. Mr. Arvinder Singh, learned counsel for the respondent No. 2 in his turn would point out that it was a serious crime and the petitioner had a direct role in shooting of the victim. Since the trial is at a crucial stage, bail is opposed by the respondents counsel. 5. In this case, 21 prosecution witnesses have already testified and it is submitted by the State’s counsel Mr. Siddhant Sharma that 17 more witnesses are proposed to be examined after dropping 9 of the earlier cited witnesses. 6. The High Court while rejecting bail had asked for conclusion of trial within 5 months. The 5 months period stipulated by the High Court will expire at the end of this month but as noticed earlier, the prosecution proposes to examine 17 more witnesses. 7. An accused has a right to a fair trial and while a hurried trial is frowned upon as it may not give sufficient time to prepare for the defence, an inordinate delay in conclusion of the trial would infringe the right of an accused guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. 8. It is not for nothing the Author Oscar Wilde in “The Ballad of Reading Gaol”, wrote the following poignant lines while being incarcerated: “I know not whether Laws be right, Or whether Laws be wrong; All that we know who be in jail Is that the wall is strong; And that each day is like a year, A year whose days are long.” 9. The incident in the present case occurred on 25.06.2020 and the petitioner was arrested soon thereafter on 26.06.2020. By now, 6 co-accused have been granted bail. As the prosecution wishes to examine 17 more witnesses, the trial is unlikely to conclude on a near date. 10. Considering the above and to avoid the situation of the trial process itself being the punishment particularly when there is presumption of innocence under the Indian jurisprudence, we deem it appropriate to grant bail to the petitioner – Balwinder Singh. It is ordered accordingly. Appropriate bail conditions be imposed by the learned trial court. 11. However, it is made clear that the petitioner must appear on all dates before the trial court and should cooperate in expeditious conclusion of the trial. He should not interact and also maintain distance from the witnesses. Any infringement of bail conditions will result in cancellation of this bail order. 12. With the above, the Special Leave Petition stands disposed of. 13. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand closed. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,015 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi SBI Not TDS Defaulter for LFC Paid During Madras HC No-TDS Order: ITAT Mumbai October 5, 2026 SBI Not Assessee-in-Default for LTC TDS Barred by High Court Order: ITAT Mumbai October 5, 2026 Pre-2020 Commercial Suits Not Vitiated for Section 12A Non-Compliance: Calcutta HC October 5, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Pre-2020 Commercial Suits Not Vitiated for Section 12A Non-Compliance: Calcutta HC October 5, 2026 Partnership Dispute Is Commercial; Civil Court Must Return Plaint to Commercial Court: Allahabad HC October 5, 2026 Commercial Dispute Plaint Must Be Returned, Not Rejected Under Order VII Rule 11 CPC: SC October 5, 2026 Section 12A Pre-Institution Mediation Mandatory; Pre-11 December 2020 Suits Protected: Calcutta HC October 5, 2026 Real Estate CIRP Must Be Confined to Project of Applicant Homebuyers: NCLAT Delhi October 5, 2026 RERA Recovery Certificate Does Not End Homebuyer Financial Creditor Status: NCLAT Delhi October 5, 2026