Why the GST Department Almost Never Pays You Interest on Late Refunds — Even Though the Law Says It Must Summary: Delayed GST refunds can impose a significant cash-flow burden on businesses, particularly where the principal refund is released months after the application but interest is not paid. Section 56 of the GST Act provides that where a refund is not paid within 60 days of the refund application, interest becomes payable automatically, rather than only when the taxpayer separately claims it. The article highlights the recurring departmental position that interest must be specifically claimed in the refund application and explains why that approach was rejected by the Delhi High Court in Raghav Ventures vs. Commissioner of Delhi GST (2024). In that case, a mobile phone exporter was owed a refund of over ₹2.44 crore and the department refused interest on the ground that the taxpayer had not specifically asked for it. The Court held that interest on delayed refund is a statutory right and cannot be denied merely because the taxpayer failed to mention interest in the refund application. The article further notes that other High Courts have taken a consistent approach on the statutory nature of interest for delayed GST refunds. It concludes that taxpayers whose refunds were released late without corresponding interest were denied an amount to which they were legally entitled, leaving follow-up, representations or litigation as the practical means of securing payment where the department does not automatically comply. Table of Contents▸ Introduction The Law Is Actually Very Clear The Excuse That Gets Used Against You The Courts Have Already Called This Out What This Really Means for You Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction If you’ve ever waited months for your GST refund, you already know the frustration. Your money — money that’s rightfully yours — sits stuck in the government’s system while your business bleeds cash. You still have to pay your suppliers, your staff, your rent. But the refund you’re owed? It comes whenever it comes. And when it finally does arrive, there’s one thing almost always missing: interest. This isn’t a small technicality. It’s real money that businesses lose every single day their refund is delayed. The Law Is Actually Very Clear Under Section 56 of the GST Act, if your refund isn’t paid within 60 days of applying, the department owes you interest — automatically. Not “if you ask for it.” Not “if you remember to mention it.” Automatically. The moment day 61 arrives, the interest clock starts ticking, whether anyone notices or not. And yet, in file after file, refund after refund, taxpayers get their principal amount back — sometimes after 6 months, sometimes after a year — with zero interest attached. No explanation. No apology. Just silence. The Excuse That Gets Used Against You Ask why, and the most common answer you’ll hear is: “You didn’t claim interest in your refund application.” As if a small business owner, focused simply on getting their own money back, is supposed to know they need to separately fight for interest on top of it — or lose the right to it entirely. Think about how unfair that is. The delay is caused by the department. The paperwork is designed by the department. The processing timeline is controlled by the department. And yet, if interest isn’t paid, the burden of blame is quietly shifted onto the taxpayer for “not asking.” The Courts Have Already Called This Out This exact excuse was put to the test in Raghav Ventures vs. Commissioner of Delhi GST (Delhi High Court, 2024). A mobile phone exporter was owed a refund of over ₹2.44 crore. The department sanctioned the refund — but refused to pay interest, arguing the exporter hadn’t specifically asked for it. The Delhi High Court didn’t accept that excuse for a second. It ruled plainly: interest on a delayed refund is a statutory right. It doesn’t need to be claimed. It cannot be denied just because a taxpayer failed to write the word “interest” somewhere in a form. If the refund is late, interest is owed — full stop. Since then, other High Courts have said the same thing in different cases — the message from the judiciary has been remarkably consistent. Yet on the ground, at the level of the actual refund desk, the same old excuse keeps getting used against taxpayers, again and again, as though these judgments never happened. What This Really Means for You If your refund came late and you didn’t get interest with it, you weren’t given something extra you weren’t entitled to — you were denied something you were always owed. And the only way most people get it is by pushing back, following up, or in the worst cases, going to court just to collect money that should have been paid without a fight in the first place. That shouldn’t be the price of getting what’s legally yours. But until enforcement actually catches up with what the courts have already decided, it often is. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Refund Author Info Name: CA Abhishek Aggarwal Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Aggarwal Abhishek & Co. Location: Faridabad, Haryana Articles Published: 5 View full profile → More from CA Abhishek Aggarwal Rule 37A GST: Critical ITC Reversal Rule Businesses Must Know to Avoid Costly Interest September 8, 2026 Builder Delay Can Trigger TDS Interest for Homebuyers September 6, 2026 Vague Fraud Allegation Cannot Invoke GST Section 74: SC September 6, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Can ITC Missed in GSTR-3B Be Claimed Through GSTR-9? Legal Position September 11, 2026 Omission of Rule 96(10) Without Saving Clause Ends Pending GST Refund Proceedings: SC September 11, 2026 GST Recovery Can Be Made Only From the Person Who Charged & Collected It: SC September 11, 2026 Karnataka HC Directs Reimbursement of 12% GST to Civil Contractor September 11, 2026 Rajasthan High Court Rejects Delayed GST Appeal Beyond Statutory Limitation September 11, 2026 GST Section 129 Penalty Quashed Without Tax Evasion Intention: Allahabad HC September 10, 2026