Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13337 Case Name Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited And Another Vs G.N. Mani Ravinder And Others Etc. (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited And Another Vs G.N. Mani Ravinder And Others Etc. (Supreme Court of India) Mere officiation on a higher post creates no vested right to promotion under old Rules; applicable Rules are those in force on date of consideration: Supreme Court The Supreme Court has held that employees merely officiating on a higher post do not acquire a vested right to regular promotion under the recruitment rules or administrative instructions that existed when the vacancies arose. The right of an eligible employee is only to be considered for promotion under the Rules in force on the date of such consideration. There is no universal principle that vacancies must necessarily be filled according to the Rules prevailing on the date on which they arose. The Court consequently set aside the High Court’s directions requiring BSNL to consider the employees for promotion as Rajbhasha Adhikari without insisting upon the written test prescribed under the 2005 Recruitment Rules. Administrative instructions providing automatic promotion The Department of Telecommunications created a separate official-language wing for promoting the use of Hindi. Posts of Hindi Translator Grade I, II and III were created, with the post of Hindi Officer constituting the next promotional level. An administrative order dated April 28, 1994 provided that Hindi Translators in Grades I, II and III would become eligible for promotion to the post of Hindi Officer after completing three, five and eight years of service, respectively. The private respondents were appointed as Hindi Translators in different grades. They were subsequently asked to perform the functions of Assistant Director (Official Language), later renamed Rajbhasha Adhikari, on an officiating basis. However, they were never promoted to that post either on a regular or ad hoc basis through a duly constituted selection process. Recruitment Rules of 2002 and 2005 The Department subsequently framed the Assistant Director (Official Language) Recruitment Rules, 2002. The Rules re-designated the post of Hindi Officer as Assistant Director (Official Language). The 2002 Rules contemplated that the existing 120 vacancies would be filled by promoting eligible Hindi Translators. However, those Rules were never operationalised in the respondents’ cases. Thereafter, the 2005 Recruitment Rules were introduced. The post was renamed Rajbhasha Adhikari and classified as an executive cadre post. Promotion was made dependent upon success in a limited internal competitive examination. If sufficient candidates were not available through the promotional channel, the remaining vacancies could be filled by direct recruitment. The employees challenged the application of the 2005 Rules, claiming a right to promotion under the earlier regime without appearing for the prescribed examination. High Court granted relief under the old regime The Single Judge accepted the employees’ contention and directed BSNL to consider their cases for promotion without reference to the test introduced under the 2005 Rules. The High Court reasoned that the employees’ rights had accrued under the Rules and instructions prevailing before the 2005 Rules came into force. The Division Bench affirmed that decision. BSNL, therefore, approached the Supreme Court. Officiating arrangement did not create a vested right The Supreme Court found that the respondents were working on the higher post only on an officiating basis. They had never received regular or even ad hoc promotion through the prescribed process. The Court held that their cases were directly governed by its earlier decision in CMD/Chairman, BSNL v. Mishri Lal. In Mishri Lal, similarly placed employees had been permitted to officiate on the higher post under the administrative instructions of April 28, 1994. The Supreme Court had held that a local officiating arrangement did not confer a vested right to regular promotion under the 2002 Rules. When the 2005 Rules changed the method of recruitment and introduced a limited internal competitive examination, employees merely officiating on the higher post could not insist that the vacancies be filled by promotion under the earlier regime. The change in recruitment policy was not illegal merely because it required existing employees to qualify through an examination. Why the decision in Medini C. did not apply The employees relied upon the later Supreme Court ruling in Medini C. v. BSNL, contending that their promotions should be regularised under the earlier Rules. The Supreme Court distinguished that decision on facts. In Medini C., the concerned employees had been provisionally or ad hoc promoted before the 2005 Rules came into force. More importantly, Rule 10(3) of the 2002 Rules contained a specific one-time measure requiring vacancies to be filled from among officials already officiating as Assistant Directors, subject to the prescribed qualifications and experience. Those employees had also initiated proceedings to enforce their right to regularisation before the 2005 Rules were introduced. Their claim was, therefore, supported by a specific provision in the 2002 Rules and by steps already taken to enforce the accrued right. In the present case, the respondents had only been allowed to officiate on the higher post. They had not been provisionally or ad hoc promoted and had not acquired any enforceable right under the 2002 Rules. Their cases were consequently covered by Mishri Lal and not by Medini C. Vacancies need not be filled under the Rules prevailing when they arose The Supreme Court also relied upon State of Himachal Pradesh v. Raj Kumar, which had reconsidered and overturned the broader proposition associated with Y.V. Rangaiah v. J. Sreenivasa Rao. The Court reiterated three principles: First, there is no universal rule that vacancies must be filled under the law prevailing on the date on which they arose. Second, a candidate has a right to be considered according to the Rules existing on the date of consideration, rather than an automatic right under the repealed Rules. Third, the Government may consciously decide not to fill earlier vacancies and may restructure the recruitment or promotional process. Employees do not acquire an indefeasible right to consideration under the old Rules merely because vacancies existed before the amendment. Such a policy decision must, however, remain fair, reasonable and consistent with Article 14 of the Constitution. Applying these principles, the Supreme Court held that the High Court could not have directed consideration of the employees under the pre-2005 regime. The appeals filed by BSNL were accordingly allowed. Author’s comments The judgment draws an important distinction between eligibility, officiation and a vested right to promotion. Performing the duties of a higher post, even for a considerable period, does not by itself amount to appointment or promotion to that post. The ruling also limits the frequently invoked principle that vacancies must be governed by the Rules existing when they arose. After Raj Kumar, the decisive date is ordinarily the date on which the employer actually undertakes the promotional exercise, unless the earlier Rules themselves create an enforceable right or the Government’s decision is arbitrary. At the same time, the decision does not permit employers to manipulate vacancies indefinitely. A policy decision postponing recruitment or introducing new eligibility conditions must withstand scrutiny under Article 14. If the change is discriminatory, mala fide or designed merely to defeat accrued rights, judicial interference may still be justified. The practical principle is that a mere expectation of promotion under the old Rules is not equivalent to an accrued right. Unless the employee was validly promoted, protected by a specific transitional provision or had already acquired an enforceable statutory entitlement, the amended Rules prevailing on the date of consideration will govern the promotion. Cases Discussed CMD/Chairman, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and Others v. Mishri Lal and Others, (2011) 14 SCC 739. Medini C. and Others v. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and Others, (2022) 4 SCC 562. State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Raj Kumar and Others, (2023) 3 SCC 773. Y.V. Rangaiah and Others v. J. Sreenivasa Rao and Others, (1983) 3 SCC 284. FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER 1. Leave granted. 2. The issue arising in these Appeals falls in a narrow compass. To put it pithily, we are required to dwell on the issue as to whether the case of the private respondents would be covered with the decision rendered by this Court in Medini C. and Others v. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and Others1 (three Judges) or the private respondents’ case would be more appropriately governed by the earlier judgment of this Court in CMD/Chairman, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited and Others v. Mishri Lal and Others2. The private respondents-writ petitioners are working on the post of Assistant Director (Official Language), renamed as ‘Rajbhasha Adhikari’, on officiating basis. The learned Single Judge of the High Court allowed the writ petitions directing the appellants herein to consider the cases of the private respondents-writ petitioners for promotion to the post of ‘Rajbhasha Adhikari’ without reference to the test prescribed under the Rajbhasha Adhikari Recruitment Rules, 20053 and on the basis of the rights that accrued to the private respondents-writ petitioners under the Rules that existed earlier thereto. The said order of the learned Single Judge has been affirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court under the common impugned judgments. 3. The Department of Telecommunications4 constituted a separate wing for promotion of Hindi language and, in furtherance thereof, posts of Hindi Translator Grade I, II and III were created. The next higher post was that of Hindi Officer. The private respondents-writ petitioners were appointed as Hindi Translators in different grades. Administrative orders were issued from time to time stipulating the guidelines for promotion to the next higher post and one such order was issued on 28.04.1994 providing that Hindi Translators Grade-I, II and III shall be entitled to be promoted automatically to the post of Hindi Officer on completion of 3, 5 and 8 years of service respectively. However, the private respondents-writ petitioners could not be afforded the benefit of promotion under the said administrative orders and, in the meanwhile, the DoT framed statutory rules, namely Assistant Director (Official Language) Recruitment Rules, 20025. The post of Hindi Officer was re-designated as Assistant Director (Official Language). It was mentioned in the Rules that irrespective of the ratio between direct recruitment and promotion, all the existing 120 vacancies shall be filled by promoting the eligible Hindi Translators. However, again, none of the private respondents-writ petitioners were extended the benefit under these Rules. As a matter of fact, the 2002 Rules were never brought into operation. Thereafter, the new set of statutory rules i.e., the 2005 Rules, were enacted which renamed the post of Assistant Director (Official Language) as ‘Rajbhasha Adhikari’ and prescribed a written test for evaluating eligibility for promotion with a further condition that if adequate number of candidates are not available for promotion, the corresponding vacancies shall be made available for direct recruitment. It is these rules which were challenged before the learned Single Judge of the High Court. 4. It was the contention of the DoT before the High Court that the writ petitioners have no right to be promoted under the earlier set of Rules which were never brought into force and that the writ petitioners have to attend the examination for being promoted to the next higher post of ‘Rajbhasha Adhikari’. 5. Since the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court had taken a view that the private respondents-writ petitioners are entitled to be promoted under the Rules which were in existence immediately prior to 2005 Rules, now Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited has preferred these Appeals. 6. Mr. Piyush Sharma, learned counsel appearing for the appellants and Ms. Archana Pathak Dave, learned ASG appearing for respondent no.5-DoT, would assail the common impugned judgments of the High Court on two counts. Firstly, the cases of the private respondents-writ petitioners are covered by the decision of this Court in Mishri Lal (supra) and, secondly, the High Court’s view that the private respondents-writ petitioners are entitled to be considered for promotion as per the rules prevalent when the vacancies had arisen prior to 2005 Rules, is contrary to the law laid down by this Court in the matter of State of Himachal Pradesh and Others v. Raj Kumar and Others6. 7. Per contra, Mr. G. Arudhra Rao, learned counsel appearing for the private respondents-writ petitioners would submit that the cases of the private respondents-writ petitioners are covered under the decision rendered by this Court in Medini C. (supra) which has clearly distinguished Mishri Lal (supra) inasmuch as private respondents having been promoted on officiating basis prior to the 2005 Rules, their case would be governed under the old Rules, and the High Court has taken a correct view in allowing the writ petitions. ANALYSIS 8. Indisputably, as has been noted by the learned Single Judge of the High Court that all the writ petitioners were officiating against the post of Assistant Director (Official Language) or ‘Rajbhasha Adhikari’ which fact was also stated in paragraphs 6 and 9 of the counter affidavit filed by the appellants before the writ court. Thus, it is not in dispute that the private respondents-writ petitioners were never promoted either on regular basis or even on ad hoc basis to the post of ‘Rajbhasha Adhikari’. In the above undisputed factual background, we notice the observations made by this Court in Mishri Lal (supra) in paragraph 10 which is reproduced hereunder: “10. It may be mentioned that the respondents herein were never regularly promoted as Hindi Officer at any point of time either under the 1984 Rules or the Recruitment Rules, 2002. They had never been appointed on the basis of the recommendation of the Departmental Promotion Committee duly approved by the Union Public Service Commission. In fact, they were appointed purely on a local officiating basis under the powers delegated to the heads of telecom circles on the basis of administrative instructions dated 28-4-1994. Thus, they were never regular appointees and hence had no vested rights for promotion to the post of Hindi Officer under the Recruitment Rules of 2002, which, in fact, were never in operation at any point of time. Besides this, when the revised Recruitment Rules, 2005 were formulated, 120 posts were classified as executive, and for the executive cadre posts, the mode of recruitment was changed and it was now to be filled up by a limited internal competitive examination. It cannot now be allowed to be filled up by promotion of persons working on officiating basis. In our opinion there was nothing illegal in this change of policy.” 9. In the subsequent decision of this Court in Medini C. (supra), the affected candidates were promoted on officiating or ad hoc basis. In such a situation, this Court had an occasion to consider whether their cases would be governed by the earlier decision of this Court in Mishri Lal (supra) or they are distinguishable. This Court proceeded to observe thus in paragraphs 20, 21, 30 and 32 to 37: “20. There can be no cavil that these appellants were appointed as Hindi Translators and Telecom Office Assistants. The appellant viz. C. Mridula was promoted to General Central Service Group as Assistant Director (OL) on officiating basis while the appellants viz. Medini C., B. Geetha Devi and Sobhana Kumari were promoted to the post of Assistant Director (OL) on ad hoc basis. This was prior to the enforcement of the 2002 Rules. 21. On 24-12-2002, the respondent(s) issued a Notification stating that the 2002 Rules would supersede all instructions on the subject including the instructions contained in DOT’s Circular No. 372-1/94-STG-III dated 28-4-1994 regarding filling up of the posts of Hindi Officers [Assistant Director (OL)] in field units on local officiating basis. That wherever local officiating arrangements/ad hoc promotions were required, they were to be made in accordance with the provisions of the 2002 Rules. Further, local officiating arrangements/promotions on ad hoc basis having already been made were not to be disturbed until further orders. *** 30. The High Court vide its judgment dated 4-11-2011 [BSNL v. Union of India, 2011 SCC OnLine Ker 3786] held that in Mishri Lal [BSNL v. Mishri Lal, (2011) 14 SCC 739 : (2014) 1 SCC (L&S) 387], this Court had made observations with regard to the implementation of the 2002 Rules vis-à-vis the facts of the said case and the said observations did not apply to the instant cases. The High Court held in favour of the appellants herein by observing that there were 120 vacancies of Assistant Director (OL) when the 2002 Rules were in force and the appointing authority had promoted in terms of the prevailing Rules and the 2005 Rules did not take away the vested right of the appellants herein as the 2005 Rules were prospective in operation. Citing the decision of this Court in Y.V. Rangaiah v. J. Sreenivasa Rao [Y.V. Rangaiah v. J. Sreenivasa Rao, (1983) 3 SCC 284 : 1983 SCC (L&S) 382 : AIR 1983 SC 852], it was observed that the posts which fell vacant prior to the amended Rules would be governed by the old Rules and not by the new Rules. Consequently, all the original petitions and writ petition filed by the respondents herein were dismissed by the High Court vide judgment dated 4-11-2011 [BSNL v. Union of India, 2011 SCC OnLine Ker 3786]. *** 32. We have in detail narrated the facts and events that have occurred in these cases and also referred to the Rules of 2002 and 2005 and we have succinctly noted the earlier order dated 4-11-2011 [BSNL v. Union of India, 2011 SCC OnLine Ker 3786] passed by the High Court which were in favour of the appellants herein. The reason as to why the earlier order of the High Court was reviewed and recalled by the impugned judgment is mainly on the basis of the judgment of this Court in Mishri Lal [BSNL v. Mishri Lal, (2011) 14 SCC 739 : (2014) 1 SCC (L&S) 387] in respect of which the High Court in the impugned judgment has stated that the 2002 Rules were not given effect to and hence the appellants had no right to be regularised subsequent to their ad hoc promotions. 33. Hence, we shall consider the judgment of this Court in Mishri Lal [BSNL v. Mishri Lal, (2011) 14 SCC 739 : (2014) 1 SCC (L&S) 387]. In Mishri Lal [BSNL v. Mishri Lal, (2011) 14 SCC 739 : (2014) 1 SCC (L&S) 387], Respondents 1 to 9 therein assailed the 2005 Rules by which the writ petitioners were told to appear in the limited internal competitive examination for promotion to the post of Rajbhasha Adhikari [AD (OL)]. The said Rules were quashed by the Allahabad High Court at the preliminary stage of admission, without service of notice to the respondent BSNL. In para 9 of Mishri Lal [BSNL v. Mishri Lal, (2011) 14 SCC 739 : (2014) 1 SCC (L&S) 387], this Court noted that there were some objections to the Recruitment Rules of 2002 as “allegedly” these Rules were never in operation at any point of time. Thereafter, the revised 2005 Rules were formulated and issued on 5-8-2005 whereby 120 posts were classified as executive with the nomenclature of Rajbhasha Adhikari. While the educational qualifications remained the same as before, under the 2005 Rules, the entire cadre had to be filled by a limited internal competitive examination. These Rules had been struck down [Mishri Lal v. Union of India, 2005 SCC OnLine All 1342] by the Allahabad High Court. 34. In para 10 of Mishri Lal [BSNL v. Mishri Lal, (2011) 14 SCC 739 : (2014) 1 SCC (L&S) 387], it is noted that the respondents therein were never regularly promoted as Hindi Officer at any point of time. They were appointed on the basis of administrative instructions dated 28-4-1994, purely on officiating basis under the powers delegated to the Heads of Telecom Circles. They were never regular appointees and hence no vested rights for promotion to the post of Hindi Officer under the 2002 Rules inhered in them. Further, this Court observed that when the 2005 Rules were formulated 120 posts were classified as executive and the power of recruitment was changed and such posts were to be filled up by internal competitive examination, the said posts could not be filled up by promotion by the persons working on officiating basis. 35. Thus, the aforesaid facts in Mishri Lal [BSNL v. Mishri Lal, (2011) 14 SCC 739 : (2014) 1 SCC (L&S) 387] and on a consideration of the reasoning of the judgment(s) of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, this Court held in favour of the respondents herein by setting aside the judgment of the Allahabad High Court. 36. In our view the judgment in Mishri Lal [BSNL v. Mishri Lal, (2011) 14 SCC 739 : (2014) 1 SCC (L&S) 387] cannot be applied to the present case as the facts that obtained in the said case are distinct. In Mishri Lal [BSNL v. Mishri Lal, (2011) 14 SCC 739 : (2014) 1 SCC (L&S) 387] it was noted that the respondents therein were never regularly promoted as Hindi Officers at any point of time either under the 1984 Rules nor under the 2002 Rules subsequently. They were appointed purely on the local officiating basis under the administrative instructions dated 28-4-1994. Therefore, this Court held that the respondents in the said case were never regular appointees and hence had no vested right for promotion to the post of Hindi Officer under the 2002 Rules which were not given effect to vis-à-vis the respondents therein. 37. But in the instant case the facts are totally distinct inasmuch as these appellants were provisionally promoted while in the Telecom Department as Assistant Director (OL) as early as on 15-5-1994 but they were not regularised and hence they approached the Tribunal seeking an order of regularisation. In fact, Rule 10(3) of the 2002 Rules categorically stated that as a “one-time measure” all the vacancies in the grade of Assistant Director (OL) in the first year of promotional quota or direct vacancies had to be filled by direct quota by following due procedure from amongst the officials who had been officiating as Assistant Director (OL) in the respondent BSNL subject to their fulfilling the basic qualifications and experience as prescribed. Despite promulgation of the 2002 Rules no order for regularisation of promotion was issued. Hence, the appellants herein approached the High Court for promotion. It is during the said period, the 2005 Rules were issued but by then the appellants herein had already enforced their vested rights regarding their regularisation in their respective posts as per the 2002 Rules on the basis of one-time measure that was envisaged under the said Rules. The Tribunal therefore granted relief to them and the High Court by order dated 4-11-2011 [BSNL v. Union of India, 2011 SCC OnLine Ker 3786] dismissed the writ petitions filed by the respondent BSNL was sustained by this Court in the special leave petitions as well as the review petitions filed by the respondent BSNL.” 10. The conspicuous discerning factors in Mishri Lal (supra) and Medini C. (supra) are that in Mishri Lal (supra) the writ petitioners were working as ‘Rajbhasha Adhikari’ on officiating basis like in the present case; whereas in the matter of Medini C. (supra), the writ petitioners were provisionally promoted7. Thus, the cases of the private respondents-writ petitioners were covered under the judgment rendered by this Court in Mishri Lal (supra) wherein this Court denied the relief to the writ petitioners only on the ground that since they were working on the next higher post only on officiating basis, there is no vested right in them to be considered for promotion under the old Rules. In the subsequent decision in the matter of Medini C. (supra), the writ petitioners were provisionally promoted and, thus, this Court distinguished the earlier decision of this Court in the matter of Mishri Lal (supra). 11. It is now settled by this Court in the matter of Raj Kumar (supra) while overturning the earlier decision in the matter of Y.V. Rangaiah and Others v. J. Sreenivasa Rao and Others8, that: (i) There is no rule of universal application that vacancies must be necessarily filled on the basis of the law which existed on the date when they arose; (ii) It is now settled proposition of law that a candidate has a right to be considered in the light of the existing rules and that such right occurs on the date of consideration of the eligible candidates under the rules existing at that point in time; and (iii) The Government is entitled to take a conscious policy decision not to fill up the vacancies arising prior to the amendment of the rules. The employee does not acquire any vested right for being considered for promotion in accordance with the repealed rules in view of the policy decision taken by the Government. There is no obligation for the Government to make appointments as per the old rules in the event of restructuring. The only requirement is that the policy decisions of the Government must be fair and reasonable and must be justified on the touchstone of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 12. Thus, applying the ratio laid down by this Court in Raj Kumar (supra), the High Court could not have directed consideration of the private respondents-writ petitioners’ case for promotion on the basis of the Rules existing immediately prior to the enactment of the 2005 Rules. Thus, the common impugned judgments passed by the High Court deserve to be set aside and the same are hereby set aside. 13. The Appeals are accordingly allowed. 14. Pending applications stand disposed of accordingly. Notes: 1 (2022) 4 SCC 562 2 (2011) 14 SCC 739 3 Hereinafter referred to as ‘the 2005 Rules’ 4 Hereinafter referred to as ‘the DoT’ 5 Hereinafter referred to as ‘the 2002 Rules’ 7 See paragraphs 36 and 37 of Medini C. (supra) 8 (1983) 3 SCC 284 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,530 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty ITAT Kolkata Deletes Section 271DA Penalty for Unproved Cash Receipt September 19, 2026 ITAT Kolkata Deletes TDS and TCS Penalties on Bona Fide Belief Under Section 273B September 19, 2026 Unrelated Section 50C Addition Cannot Survive Failed Reopening Ground: ITAT Ahmedabad September 19, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Delhi HC Initiates Contempt Against Tihar Superintendent for Frustrating Parole Order September 19, 2026 Private Limited Company vs LLP vs OPC: Which Structure Should Startups Choose? September 19, 2026 CCPA penalises Grand Amanta for misleading holiday offers and unfair trade practices September 19, 2026 CCPA Imposes Rs. 10 Lakh Penalty on Xboom for Anti-Drone Listings September 19, 2026 IFSCA Electronic Trading Platforms Regulations 2026: Registration & Operating Framework September 18, 2026 Orissa HC Reinstates Judge After Withdrawal of Resignation Before Acceptance September 17, 2026