Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13236 Case Name Techmech Cranes India Private Limited Vs State of Telangana & Others (Telangana High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Telangana High Court Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Techmech Cranes India Private Limited Vs State of Telangana & Others (Telangana High Court) Summary: The Telangana High Court granted a taxpayer liberty to file a statutory appeal against a GST order and directed that no coercive recovery steps be taken for two weeks, the period allowed for filing the appeal. The petitioner had challenged a recovery notice, contending that the amount demanded did not correspond with the amount determined in the GST DRC-07 order. The Court did not examine the merits of this dispute and left the petitioner to raise its grounds before the appellate authority. Introduction The Telangana High Court in Techmech Cranes India Private Limited vs State of Telangana & Others considered a writ petition challenging coercive recovery pursuant to a recovery notice dated 10.07.2026. The petitioner alleged that its detailed representation dated 13.07.2026, acknowledged on 14.07.2026, had not been considered before recovery action was initiated. It also contended that the amount demanded in FORM GST DRC-07 dated 25.02.2025. Case Background The petitioner approached the High Court seeking relief against recovery proceedings. Among other things, it requested consideration of its representation, verification of relevant records, reconciliation of a stated difference of ₹30,000, and an opportunity of personal hearing. The petitioner also sought protection from coercive recovery until its representation was considered. During the hearing, the petitioner’s counsel sought liberty to prefer an appeal against the order dated 25.02.2025, while requesting that any delay in filing the appeal be considered sympathetically. Petitioner’s Contentions The petitioner’s principal contentions included: The amount demanded under the recovery notice did not correspond with the amount determined in DRC-07 dated 25.02.2025. Its representation dated 13.07.2026 had been acknowledged on 14.07.2026 but, according to the petitioner, had not been considered before coercive recovery action. The records required verification and a difference of ₹30,000 required reconciliation. The petitioner sought a meaningful opportunity of personal hearing and protection from coercive recovery. The petitioner wished to pursue a statutory appeal and requested sympathetic consideration of the delay. The State Tax Department submitted that the petitioner was at liberty to prefer an appeal against the order dated 25.02.2025 and raise all grounds available in law and on facts before the appellate authority. Court’s Observations Since the petitioner sought liberty to pursue the statutory appellate remedy, the High Court declined to comment on the merits of the parties’ contentions. The Court granted the petitioner two weeks to file an appeal, subject to payment of the statutory pre-deposit and filing of a delay condonation application. The statutory pre-deposit requirement for GST appeals is governed by the relevant provisions of the CGST Act, 2017. TaxGuru has also discussed the statutory pre-deposit requirements for GST appeals. ([TaxGuru][1]) The petitioner was permitted to raise all available grounds of law and fact in the appeal. The appellate authority was directed to consider the question of delay and, if satisfied, decide the appeal on merits in accordance with law. Protection Against Coercive Recovery The High Court directed that no coercive steps be taken against the petitioner pursuant to the impugned recovery notice during the two-week period granted for filing the appeal. This protection was limited to the period allowed for filing the appeal; the order does not record a final determination of the petitioner’s liability or of the validity of the recovery notice. Final Judgment The Telangana High Court disposed of the writ petition with the following directions: 1. The petitioner was granted liberty to file a statutory appeal against the order dated 25.02.2025. 2. The appeal was to be filed within two weeks. 3. The petitioner was required to make the statutory pre-deposit and submit a delay condonation application. 4. All available grounds of law and fact could be raised before the appellate authority. 5. The appellate authority was directed to consider the delay and, if satisfied, decide the appeal on merits in accordance with law. 6. No coercive recovery steps were to be taken pursuant to the impugned recovery notice during the two-week period. 7. The High Court did not express any opinion on the merits of the dispute. 8. The writ petition was disposed of, with no order as to costs. Author’s Analysi 1. Recovery Amount Dispute Left Open for Appeal The petitioner alleged a mismatch between the recovery notice and the amount determined in DRC-07. The High Court did not decide whether the alleged mismatch was established or whether it invalidated the recovery action. The petitioner was permitted to raise the issue before the appellate authority. Delay Was Not Automatically Condoned Although the petitioner requested sympathetic consideration of the delay, the High Court did not itself condone it. The appellate authority was directed to consider the delay and proceed to decide the appeal on merits only if satisfied on that question. 2. Temporary Protection During the Appeal-Filing Period The order provides limited protection against coercive recovery while the petitioner takes steps to file the appeal. The protection lasts for the two-week period specified by the Court and is not a final stay of recovery. Conclusion In Techmech Cranes India Private Limited vs State of Telangana & Others, W.P. No. 27698 of 2026, the Telangana High Court permitted the petitioner to challenge the GST order through the statutory appellate mechanism. The Court granted two weeks to file the appeal with the statutory pre-deposit and a delay condonation application. It also directed that no coercive steps be taken pursuant to the recovery notice during that period, while leaving the merits of the dispute to the appellate authority. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF TELANGANA HIGH COURT Heard Mr. K. Chaitanya, learned counsel representing Dr. M. Madhavi Latha, learned counsel for the petitioner and Mr. K. Sai Akarsh, learned Assistant Government Pleader for State Tax appearing for the respondents. 2. This Writ Petition is filed for the following relief: “… to issue an appropriate Writ, Order or Direction, more particularly one in the nature of a Writ of Mandamus, declaring the action of Respondent No.4 in proceeding with coercive recovery pursuant to the Recovery Notice dated 10.07.2026, despite acknowledgment on 14.07.2026 of the Petitioner’s detailed representation dated 13.07.2026 and without considering and disposing of the same before taking coercive recovery measures, as arbitrary, illegal, contrary to the principles of natural justice and violative of Articles 14 and 300A of the Constitution of India; consequently, direct Respondent Nos.3 and 4 to consider the Petitioner’s representation dated 13.07.2026, acknowledged on 14.07.2026, verify the relevant records, reconcile the difference of Rs.30,000/-, afford the Petitioner a meaningful opportunity of personal hearing, and pass a reasoned order in accordance with law, without taking any coercive recovery steps until completion of such consideration; and pass such other order or orders as this Hon’ble Court may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case.” 3. The petitioner is aggrieved by the impugned recovery notice on number of grounds, including that the amount demanded by the impugned recovery notice did not correspond with the amount determined by respondent No.3 through Form GST DRC-07, dated 25.02.2025. 4. However, after some arguments, learned counsel for the petitioner seeks liberty to the petitioner to prefer an appeal against the order dated 25.02.2025. He submits that some delay might have been occurred in approaching the appellate authority and therefore, it may be directed to consider it sympathetically. 5. Learned Assistant Government Pleader for State Tax submits that the petitioner was at liberty to prefer an appeal against the order dated 25.02.2025 taking all the grounds as are available in law and on facts before the appellate authority in respect of the subject tax period. 6. However, upon hearing learned counsel for the parties, since the petitioner seeks liberty to prefer an appeal, we do not wish to comment on the merits of the contentions raised by the parties. 7. Accordingly, we grant liberty to the petitioner to prefer an appeal within a period of two weeks with statutory pre-deposit and a delay condonation application. The petitioner may take all such grounds of law and facts in the memo of appeal as are available to it. Needless to say, the appellate authority would consider the question of delay taking into account the aforesaid facts and circumstances and if it is satisfied on the point of delay, proceed to decide the appeal on merits in accordance with law. During the period of two weeks within which the petitioner has to file the appeal, no coercive steps be taken against the petitioner pursuant to the impugned recovery notice. 8. The writ petition is accordingly disposed of with the aforesaid liberty. There shall be no order as to costs. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgments Author Info Name: ADV AKRUTI GOYAL (CA) Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: ADV AKRUTI GOYAL, ADVOCATE AND LEGAL CONSULTANT Location: Hyderabad, Telangana Articles Published: 233 View full profile → More from ADV AKRUTI GOYAL (CA) GST Revocation: Telangana HC Permits Physical Filing After Portal Time Limit Expiry September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Permits Physical GST Revocation Application After Portal Deadline September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Sets Aside GST Appeal Rejection for Fresh Consideration September 17, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Revocation: Telangana HC Permits Physical Filing After Portal Time Limit Expiry September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Permits Physical GST Revocation Application After Portal Deadline September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Sets Aside GST Appeal Rejection for Fresh Consideration September 17, 2026 GST Portal Technical Issue: Telangana HC Permits Physical Filing of GST Revocation Application September 17, 2026 CGST Delhi South Arrests Partner for Fraudulent ITC Availment of Over Rs. 15.78 Crore September 17, 2026 Delhi HC on Proper Officer for Section 122 Penalties & Pre-Deposit for Pre-Oct 1, 2025 SCNs September 16, 2026