Summary: Indian accounting firms and captive teams providing bookkeeping and accounting services to clients in the US, UK and Australia operate within a compliance framework extending well beyond routine outsourcing arrangements. Export proceeds for services are subject to FEMA realisation and repatriation requirements, making systematic invoice and receivables tracking important. Under GST, accounting and bookkeeping services supplied to overseas clients may qualify as zero-rated exports where the statutory conditions for export of services are satisfied, while exporters supplying without payment of IGST must appropriately manage their Letter of Undertaking (LUT). Offshore engagements also increasingly expose Indian firms to contractual and commercial expectations concerning client data, including SOC 2-related expectations from US clients and UK GDPR-adjacent requirements. Captive arrangements require additional attention because services supplied by an Indian entity to a foreign parent or group entity can attract Indian transfer pricing requirements where the parties constitute associated enterprises and the transaction qualifies as an international transaction. Arm’s-length pricing, prescribed documentation and the applicable accountant’s report therefore become relevant. Export earnings do not, merely because they arise from overseas accounting services, enjoy a general income-tax exemption. Consequently, offshore accounting firms should integrate FEMA realisation monitoring, GST export documentation, LUT compliance, data governance and related-party transfer pricing into their regular compliance processes rather than addressing these matters only when questioned by clients, auditors or regulators. Outsourced Offshore Accounting from India: Compliance Points Indian Firms Often Miss Indian accounting firms and captive teams serving US, UK and Australian clients under offshore/outsourced bookkeeping arrangements have grown well beyond the traditional BPO model. What’s less well understood is that this growth brings compliance obligations most firms only discover when a client’s auditor, or an Indian regulator, asks a direct question. Table of Contents▸ 1. Export of Services and FEMA Realisation Timelines 2. GST on Export of Services – Zero-Rated, But Only With the Right Paperwork 3. Data Handling and Client-Country Regulatory Exposure 4. Transfer Pricing When the "Client" Is a Related Entity 5. Income Tax: No Special Exemption for Export of Accounting Services Practical Takeaway Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 1. Export of Services and FEMA Realisation Timelines Offshore accounting services billed to a foreign client are an export of services under FEMA, and the export proceeds must be realised within the RBI-prescribed period (generally nine months from the date of export, subject to periodic RBI extensions). Firms invoicing informally or accepting delayed payments without tracking this timeline can find themselves needing RBI compounding for a technical FEMA breach that was entirely avoidable with basic invoice-date tracking. 2. GST on Export of Services – Zero-Rated, But Only With the Right Paperwork Export of accounting/bookkeeping services to a foreign client qualifies as a zero-rated supply under GST, but only when the conditions under Section 2(6) of the IGST Act are met – payment in convertible foreign exchange, service recipient located outside India, and the supplier and recipient not being merely establishments of the same distinct person. A Letter of Undertaking (LUT) needs to be filed and renewed annually to export without upfront IGST payment; firms that let their LUT lapse mid-year end up paying IGST they didn’t need to and then reclaiming it as a refund – a cash-flow cost with no upside. 3. Data Handling and Client-Country Regulatory Exposure Firms processing US client payroll or UK client bookkeeping data are increasingly asked to demonstrate data-handling practices consistent with the client’s home jurisdiction (SOC 2 expectations from US clients, UK GDPR-adjacent expectations from UK clients) even though the Indian firm itself isn’t directly regulated by those frameworks. This has become a genuine deal-qualifying factor, not a nice-to-have, in offshore accounting RFPs. 4. Transfer Pricing When the “Client” Is a Related Entity Where the offshore accounting arrangement is between an Indian captive unit and its own foreign parent or group company (rather than an independent third-party client), this is an associated-enterprise transaction under Section 92, requiring arm’s-length pricing and Form 3CEB documentation – a step captive units sometimes miss because the relationship doesn’t feel like an “export contract” in the traditional sense. 5. Income Tax: No Special Exemption for Export of Accounting Services Unlike certain SEZ or STPI-linked tax benefits that have wound down or narrowed over the years, ordinary export-of-services income from offshore accounting is taxed at normal corporate/firm rates – firms sometimes assume an “export” label carries a tax concession it no longer does. Practical Takeaway The commercial side of offshore accounting – pricing, staffing, service delivery – tends to get most of the attention. The compliance side (FEMA realisation tracking, LUT renewal, transfer pricing for captive arrangements) is where firms accumulate avoidable exposure, almost always from a process gap rather than a deliberate choice. ****** CA Mehul Agrawal, Managing Partner at Agrawal Khandelwal & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants in Nashik and Sillod, Maharashtra, advises firms on offshore accounting compliance, FEMA and GST export documentation. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under FEMAGoods And Services TaxGSTTransfer Pricing Author Info Name: Mehul Agrawal Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Agrawal Khandelwal & Associates LLP Location: Nashik, Maharashtra Articles Published: 3 View full profile → More from Mehul Agrawal UAE Corporate Tax and India-UAE DTAA: What Indian Exporters to UAE Should Know September 19, 2026 Transfer Pricing Documentation Checklist for FY 2025-26: Key Compliance Requirements July 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Fema / RBI Brother-in-Law Funding Purchase and Using Flat as Collateral Establishes Benami Ownership: SAFEMA September 19, 2026 ₹784 Crore Mining Compensation Does Not Erase Proceeds of Crime: SAFEMA September 19, 2026 Repatriating UAE Business Profits to India: Tax and FEMA Rules September 19, 2026 RBI Amends Rural Co-operative Banks KYC Directions to Extend Certified Copy Facility to FPIs September 19, 2026 RBI Amends Urban Co-operative Banks KYC Directions to Extend Certified Copy Facility to FPIs September 19, 2026 RBI Amends Regional Rural Banks KYC Directions to Extend Certified Copy Facility to FPIs September 19, 2026