Summary: The Supreme Court in Checkmate Services Pvt. Ltd. v. CIT settled the distinction between an employer’s own contribution to welfare funds and employee contributions deducted from salaries. Employee contributions covered by Section 36(1)(va), read with Section 2(24)(x) of the Income Tax Act, must be deposited within the due date prescribed under the relevant welfare legislation; depositing them before the due date for filing the income-tax return does not bring them within Section 43B. The Court emphasized the distinct character of employees’ contributions as amounts belonging to employees and held in trust by the employer. The practical consequence is significant for businesses: delays in remitting employee PF/ESI contributions can result in denial of the corresponding income-tax deduction even where the amount is subsequently deposited before filing the return. Businesses should therefore segregate employee statutory deductions from ordinary payables, maintain internal deadlines comfortably before the statutory due date, and configure payroll and accounting systems to identify and remit these amounts promptly. Table of Contents▸ Introduction The Fiduciary Reality Check Actionable Takeaways for Businesses Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Imagine this: You run a growing business. You’re juggling cash flow, client deadlines, and payroll. You diligently deduct Provident Fund (EPF) and Employee State Insurance (ESI) from your team’s salaries every month. One month, cash is a little tight, or maybe the government portal is glitching. You end up paying the EPF to the government just a few days past the 15th of the month. But you breathe easy—you paid it completely before filing your Income Tax Return (ITR). In your mind, you are fully compliant. A year later, you receive a notice from the Income Tax Department. They have disallowed the entire amount of the employee contributions and added it straight to your company’s taxable income. Suddenly, you’re staring at a massive tax bill for money you’ve already paid out. The Fiduciary Reality Check For years, there was a comforting misconception in the business community. Many believed that under Section 43B of the Income Tax Act, as long as statutory dues were cleared before filing your ITR, you were safe. But the Supreme Court of India shattered that illusion in the landmark case of Checkmate Services Pvt. Ltd. v. CIT. The Court pointed out a deeply human, ethical distinction in the law. When you contribute your employer’s share of PF, that’s a business expense. But when you deduct the employee’s share from their salary, that is not your money. You are holding their retirement savings in trust. Because of this fiduciary duty, the law (Section 36(1)(va)) is unforgiving. A delay of even one single day past the statutory deadline (the 15th of the following month) means a permanent disallowance. No ITR extension, no late fees, and no apologies will reverse it. You will pay corporate tax on your employees’ money. Actionable Takeaways for Businesses Running a business is hard enough without getting penalized for administrative blind spots. The key to avoiding this trap isn’t just knowing the law; it’s building a financial system that makes missing the deadline impossible. To prevent crippling tax additions, financial controllers and business owners must shift their compliance strategy: Segregate Payroll Timelines: Decouple your statutory payment timelines from your general vendor payables, ensuring employee funds are ring-fenced and prioritized. Account for Bank Holidays: Treat the 14th as your internal deadline. Portal glitches or bank holidays are rarely accepted as valid excuses for the delayed realization of funds. Audit-Proof Your Accounts: Structure your accounting practices within your ERP so the employer and employee contributions are correctly categorized and flagged for immediate remittance, keeping you safe from departmental scrutiny. The Supreme Court ruling firmly establishes that delayed payment of employee PF/ESI contributions by even a single day results in a permanent tax disallowance under Section 36(1)(va), as these funds are held in trust rather than acting as standard business expenses. To avoid severe tax liabilities, businesses must strip away any reliance on ITR filing extensions for these specific funds and treat the 15th of the month as an absolute, non-negotiable statutory deadline. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under EPFsupreme court judgements Author Info Name: Aashok FC Advisory Qualification: Graduate Company: Aashok F&C Advisory Location: Guwahati, Assam Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax GST Registration Beyond Turnover: CTP, NRTP and Mandatory Registration Cases September 23, 2026 Recorded Cash Sales Cannot Be Taxed Again Under Section 69A: ITAT Amritsar September 23, 2026 BookMyShow Convenience Fee Not Subject to Section 194H TDS: ITAT Bangalore September 23, 2026 No Section 194H TDS Where Collection Centres Retain Margin: Bombay HC September 23, 2026 Section 115JB MAT Not Applicable to Kerala Electricity Board: Kerala HC September 23, 2026 Section 54EC Deduction Allowed for Investments Across Two Financial Years: ITAT Bangalore September 23, 2026