Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: Taxpayers may make several mistakes when determining whether a tax audit is applicable, particularly by assuming that the Rs. 10 crore threshold automatically applies to businesses that predominantly transact digitally. Under Section 63 of the Income Tax Act, 2025, corresponding to Section 44AB of the Income Tax Act, 1961, the enhanced threshold depends on both cash receipts and cash payments remaining within 5% of the respective totals. Taxpayers may also incorrectly assume that losses or low profits eliminate the audit requirement, whereas the presumptive taxation provisions under Section 58 of the Income Tax Act, 2025, corresponding to Sections 44AD, 44ADA and 44AE of the 1961 Act, may trigger books-of-account and audit requirements where prescribed conditions are met. Other common mistakes include incorrectly calculating turnover or gross receipts, confusing business and professional thresholds, and treating tax audit as a year-end formality rather than a year-round compliance exercise. Taxpayers should identify whether their activity is a business or profession, check applicable turnover or gross-receipt thresholds, evaluate eligibility for the enhanced Rs. 10 crore business threshold, assess presumptive taxation eligibility, review whether profits are below prescribed presumptive rates, consider lock-in provisions, correctly compute turnover and gross receipts, monitor the nature of receipts and payments, including transactions treated as cash, and review compliance throughout the year. : Common things taxpayers get wrong about the tax audit requirement The most frequent mistakes may include: Assuming the Rs. 10 crore tax audit threshold applies automatically: Many businesses may believe that the tax audit threshold is Rs. 10 crore if they predominantly transact digitally. However, under Section 63 of the Income Tax Act, 2025 (corresponding section 44AB of ITA 1961), the enhanced Rs. 10 crore limit is available only when both cash receipts and cash payments do not exceed 5% of total receipts and payments respectively during the tax year. Even a small breach of either condition can reduce the threshold back to Rs. 1 crore. Believing that losses or low profits mean no audit is required: Taxpayers often assume that if their business has incurred losses or earned lower profits, they can automatically avoid a tax audit. However, where presumptive tax provisions apply u/s 58 of ITA 2025 (corresponding section 44AD, 44ADA, 44AE of ITA 1961) which specifically provides that where an eligible taxpayer declares profits lower than the presumptive rates of 6%, 8%, or 50% (as applicable), and the total taxable income exceeds the basic exemption limit, the taxpayer must maintain books of account and undergo a tax audit. Incorrectly calculating turnover or gross receipts: A common compliance issue is improper computation of turnover and gross receipts for determining audit applicability. Errors in classification of receipts, exclusion of business-related income streams, or incorrect treatment of transactions may lead taxpayers to wrongly conclude that an audit is not required. Confusing business and professional limits: Taxpayers often fail to distinguish between the audit thresholds applicable to business and professional income. While businesses may qualify for the enhanced threshold based on transaction patterns, professionals are governed by separate gross receipt limits and presumptive taxation conditions. Treating the audit requirement as an annual formality rather than a year-round compliance exercise: The eligibility for the higher audit threshold and presumptive taxation benefits is heavily dependent on transaction behaviour throughout the year. Businesses that do not monitor their cash receipts and payments on an ongoing basis often discover at year-end that they have inadvertently triggered a tax audit requirement. Key conditions a taxpayer should check to know whether tax audit is applicable to them The key conditions to check are: Identify whether the activity is a business or a profession, as different presumptive scheme thresholds apply to each category. Check the turnover or gross receipts threshold, generally, a tax audit is applicable where business turnover exceeds Rs. 1 crore or professional gross receipts exceed Rs. 50 lakh (enhanced to Rs. 75 lakh where cash receipts do not exceed 5%). Evaluate eligibility for the enhanced Rs. 10 crore threshold (for business), businesses can avail the higher threshold only if both cash receipts and cash payments do not exceed 5% of the respective totals during the tax year. Assess eligibility under the presumptive taxation scheme i.e. taxpayers should verify whether they satisfy the prescribed conditions and turnover/gross receipt limits. Review whether profits are being declared below the prescribed presumptive rates, declaring lower profits may trigger maintenance of books of account and tax audit requirements if the prescribed conditions are met. Consider the impact of the presumptive taxation lock-in provisions, taxpayers who have opted out of the presumptive scheme should examine whether any consequent obligations arise. Ensure turnover and gross receipts are computed correctly, errors in classification or exclusion of receipts can lead to incorrect conclusions regarding audit applicability. Monitor the nature of receipts and payments, certain transactions, including non-account-payee cheques and drafts, are treated as cash transactions and can affect eligibility for higher thresholds. Review compliance requirements on a year-round basis rather than only at year-end, as transaction patterns during the year can directly influence audit applicability. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Tax Audit Author Info Name: Dr. Suresh Surana Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: RSM India Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 67 View full profile → More from Dr. Suresh Surana HUF Tax Rules 2026-27: New Regime, Slabs, Deductions & Tax Planning September 7, 2026 Tax-Free Reimbursements vs Fixed WFH Allowances: Tax Treatment July 30, 2026 10 Transactions Requiring Shift From ITR-1 to ITR-2 or ITR-3 July 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Delhi ITAT Deletes ₹11.12 Crore On-Money Addition Based on WhatsApp Chats September 8, 2026 ITAT Remands ₹99.38 Lakh Appeal as Section 249(4)(b) Applicability Was Not Examined September 7, 2026 Low Returned Income Cannot Sink a Loan Without Examining the Fund Trail: ITAT Mumbai September 7, 2026 Assured-Margin Model: Nil Valuation of Real Services Leads to Double TP Adjustment September 7, 2026 Low Income Doesn’t Mean Low Creditworthiness: AO Must Investigate U/s 68 September 7, 2026 ITAT Mumbai Restricts Section 271AAB Penalty on Unreconciled Jewellery to 10% September 7, 2026