Summary: The 57th GST Council meeting held on 8 October 2026 recommended changes concerning system-based refund processing and procedural changes, expansion of accumulated itc refund eligibility, related refund and credit clarifications. The Ministry of Finance press release records recommendations and, in some cases, proposals for future circulars, consultation or in-principle approval. It is not itself an amending Act, rule or rate notification. This analysis explains the precise measures described in the release, their relationship with the statutory provisions identified there, and the practical questions that remain unresolved until the implementing instruments are published. Taxpayers should continue to apply the law currently in force and should not change return positions, claim additional credits, discontinue documentation or alter rates merely on the basis of the Council announcement. Table of Contents▸ Background and legal status System-based refund processing and procedural changes Legal reading and implementation questions Expansion of accumulated ITC refund eligibility Legal reading and implementation questions Related refund and credit clarifications Legal reading and implementation questions Analysis Way forward Key takeaways Frequently Asked Questions Have these Council recommendations come into force? Can a taxpayer rely on the proposed relief in a current return or proceeding? Will every measure commence on the same date? Does the release settle all procedural and documentary conditions? What should advisers do before acting on the announcement? TaxGuru source and related reading Provision-by-provision legal verification and qualifications Refund automation is conditional Acknowledgement and documentation Input service and capital-goods dates Pre-deposit interest Other refund details Show all 23 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Background and legal status The Council’s 57th meeting concentrated on process reform following earlier rate rationalisation. The press release distinguishes existing portal measures from new statutory or procedural proposals. Council recommendations require the appropriate amendment, notification, rule, circular or portal implementation, as applicable. A suggested implementation date in the release is not proof of commencement. System-based refund processing and procedural changes Refunds related reforms Faster, system-based automated processing of refunds 6.1 The GST Council recommended amendments in section 54 of the CGST Act, 2017 and the relevant CGST Rules, 2017, to provide for system-based processing and sanctioning of refund claims, pertaining to excess balance in electronic cash ledger, zero-rated supplies, and inverted duty structure, in the following two phases. Phase 1: Full refund claim of excess balance in the electronic cash ledger will be sanctioned automatically by the system, without officer intervention. Time limit for issuance of acknowledgement or deficiency memo to be reduced from 15 days to 10 days. Deemed acknowledgement by the system, where such acknowledgement or deficiency memo is not issued by the proper officer within 10 days of the application. For refund claims on account of zero-rated supplies and inverted duty structure, 90% of the amount claimed will be sanctioned on provisional basis automatically by the system, without officer intervention, on the basis of identification and evaluation of risk by the system. Phase 2: System-based automated acknowledgment (without officer intervention) on due verification of the refund application by the system. In such acknowledged cases, automated sanction of full refund claim by the system (without officer intervention), in respect of claims pertaining to zero rated supplies, after adjusting pending dues, if any, on the basis of identification and evaluation of risk by the system. 6.2 For expediting and streamlining the refund process, the Council further recommended amendments in the CGST Act, 2017 and the CGST Rules, 2017, to provide for: Amendment in refund application in FORM GST RFD-01, to capture the details in the said application in a system-readable format and dispense with the requirement of uploading scanned documents in case of refund claims pertaining to zero rated supply and inverted duty structure. Press-release recommendation. Amendment in rule 89(4)(C) of the CGST Rules, 2017, to remove the restriction for maximum amount of turnover of zero-rated supply of goods, as 1.5 times the value of like goods domestically supplied. Amendment in section 54(14) of the CGST Act, 2017, to add an explanation that the threshold of Rs. 1000 shall be applicable in respect of total refund amount, i.e. the amount under CGST, SGST/UTGST and IGST taken together. 6.3 With a view to ensuring greater clarity and certainty on the interest payable on refund of pre-deposit paid for filing appeals, the Council recommended, – amendment in section 115 of the CGST Act, 2017, to make it a standalone provision in respect of the rate of interest applicable for the refund of such pre-deposit amount, and issuance of a circular to clarify issues regarding rate of interest on refund of pre-deposit. 6.4 These measures will streamline and expedite refund processing through greater automation and reduced manual intervention, thereby facilitating timely sanction of eligible refunds and reducing compliance burden for taxpayers as well as interface with the department. Introduction of automation will ensure transparency, certainty, and uniformity and will also improve cash flows for taxpayers. Reforms related to dispute resolution Legal reading and implementation questions The recommendation must be tested against the final statutory or delegated instrument: the operative wording, class of eligible persons or supplies, procedural conditions, effective date, and treatment of past periods. Until those elements are notified, this section describes a proposal rather than a presently enforceable entitlement or restriction. Expansion of accumulated ITC refund eligibility Refund of accumulated ITC on account of capital goods and input services: 8.1 The Council recommended amendment in clause (ii) of proviso to section 54(3) of the CGST Act, 2017, and in the CGST Rules, 2017, to provide for refund of accumulated ITC on account of capital goods in case of refund pertaining to zero-rate supplies, and of accumulated ITC on account of input services and capital goods in case of refund pertaining to inverted duty structure. 8.2 The Council recommended that the refund of accumulated ITC on input services for refunds pertaining to inverted duty structure shall be available in respect of ITC availed on input services on or after 1 November, 2026. 8.3 In respect of refund of ITC on capital goods in refunds pertaining to zero rated supplies and inverted duty structure, the Council recommended that refund of ITC on capital goods will be spread over 60 months, and shall be available in respect of ITC availed on capital goods on or after 1 April, 2027. 8.4 This will ease working capital constraints for taxpayers and remove blockage of ITC on account of input services and capital goods in such cases. Legal reading and implementation questions The recommendation must be tested against the final statutory or delegated instrument: the operative wording, class of eligible persons or supplies, procedural conditions, effective date, and treatment of past periods. Until those elements are notified, this section describes a proposal rather than a presently enforceable entitlement or restriction. Related refund and credit clarifications Extending relief for small taxpayers on late fees : The GST Council recommended waiver of late fee on delayed filing of return under section 39(1) of the CGST Act, 2017, for taxpayers with an annual turnover up to Rs. 5 crore in the preceding financial year, if the said delayed return is filed by the end of the month in which it was due. Clarification in respect of various issues through circulars: The GST Council recommended issuance of circulars to provide clarity and to remove ambiguities arising due to varied interpretations by the field formations, in respect of the following issues: Legal reading and implementation questions The recommendation must be tested against the final statutory or delegated instrument: the operative wording, class of eligible persons or supplies, procedural conditions, effective date, and treatment of past periods. Until those elements are notified, this section describes a proposal rather than a presently enforceable entitlement or restriction. Analysis Automation of refund processing is separate from the legal eligibility to claim a refund. The press release identifies different proposed starting dates for input-service credit under inverted duty claims and capital-goods credit, and a 60-month spread for the latter. Those dates remain recommendations until the necessary provisions commence. Refund computation, supporting records and risk-based controls will depend on final rules and system functionality. Way forward First, identify the relevant Act amendment, rule amendment, rate notification or circular when issued. Second, compare its wording with the Council announcement; the final text may narrow, qualify or stage the measure. Third, confirm the commencement clause and any retrospective or transitional provision. Fourth, update compliance procedures only after checking whether portal changes, prescribed forms and administrative instructions are available. Key takeaways The 8 October 2026 press release is the primary source for the proposals discussed here. A recommendation, in-principle approval or proposed circular does not itself change the operative law. Where the release identifies thresholds, dates or exceptions, the final legal text must be checked before applying them. Existing statutory filing, payment, record-keeping and appeal obligations continue until lawfully changed. Frequently Asked Questions Have these Council recommendations come into force? Not merely by publication of the press release. The applicable amendments, notifications, rules or circulars and their commencement provisions must be examined. Can a taxpayer rely on the proposed relief in a current return or proceeding? Only if the relevant legal instrument is effective and the taxpayer satisfies its conditions. The announcement alone is insufficient. Will every measure commence on the same date? The release refers to different proposed implementation arrangements. Each measure must be checked separately against its eventual legal instrument. Does the release settle all procedural and documentary conditions? No. Several recommendations expressly contemplate further rule changes, circulars, portal modifications or consultation. What should advisers do before acting on the announcement? Maintain the current-law position, identify the specific recommendation, and track the final text, commencement and any transitional provision. TaxGuru source and related reading Principal press release: 57th GST Council Meeting – TaxGuru Provision-by-provision legal verification and qualifications Refund automation is conditional The proposed phase-one 90% provisional sanction for zero-rated and inverted-duty refunds remains risk-evaluated; full cash-ledger balance refunds are a distinct class. Phase two includes system verification, dues adjustment and risk-based full sanction for eligible zero-rated claims. Acknowledgement and documentation The proposed acknowledgement/deficiency memo period falls from 15 to 10 days, with deemed acknowledgement on non-action. Proposed RFD-01 data fields and removal of scanned-document uploads are limited to identified refund classes. Input service and capital-goods dates Inverted-duty input-service credit proposed from 1 November 2026, while capital-goods ITC in eligible zero-rated/inverted-duty refunds is proposed from 1 April 2027, spread over 60 months. Neither date operates without the legal amendment and commencement. Pre-deposit interest Section 115 is proposed to become a standalone provision for rate of interest on refunded pre-deposits, with a clarificatory circular. Do not state a new rate before it is prescribed. Other refund details Rule 89(4)(C) export turnover cap of 1.5 times comparable domestic goods is proposed for removal. The ₹1,000 section 54(14) threshold is proposed to be applied to combined tax components, not separately to each. Verified TaxGuru internal references Primary source: 57th GST Council recommendations as published on TaxGuru Related analysis: Section 54 refund framework Related analysis: Inverted-duty refund computation Related analysis: Interest on refund of appeal pre-deposit ***** Disclaimer: This article is an editorial explanation of the recommendations recorded in the Ministry of Finance press release dated 8 October 2026. It is not a statement that any proposed amendment has commenced. Readers must verify the relevant enacted law, notifications, rules, circulars and judicial developments before acting. TaxGuru accepts no responsibility for decisions taken solely on the basis of this article. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Council Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,474 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi GST Service Rate and Exemption Reforms: EVs, Helicopters, R&D and Highways October 9, 2026 GST Arrest, Prosecution and E-Way Bill Reforms: What the 57th Council Recommended October 9, 2026 E-Invoice Lapse Without Proven Tax Evasion: GSTAT Deletes ₹63.72 Lakh Penalty October 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax From Arrest to Auto-Refund: Key GST Changes Proposed in 57th GST Council Meeting October 9, 2026 E-Invoice Lapse Without Proven Tax Evasion: GSTAT Deletes ₹63.72 Lakh Penalty October 9, 2026 Section 74 SCN Must Specify Fraud Allegations Supported by Facts: Himachal Pradesh HC October 9, 2026 GST Cannot Be Deducted From Land Acquisition Compensation by State: Karnataka HC October 9, 2026 Identical GST Appeal Orders Without Independent Reasons Set Aside by GSTAT Raipur October 9, 2026 GST Appeal Cannot Be Rejected for Further Pre-Deposit When Entire Tax Is Paid: HC October 9, 2026