Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); DLF Limited, a prominent name in the Indian real estate sector, has announced the complete sell-out of its luxury retirement housing project, The Aureva, located in Sector 63, Gurugram. The project, which has generated sales close to ₹1985 crore, highlights the increasing demand for premium retirement living spaces that offer a blend of luxury, convenience, and integrated healthcare facilities. The Aureva, spread across approximately 1.6870 hectares, comprises 172 luxury residences designed to cater to the evolving needs of discerning homeowners. The development boasts a total carpet area exceeding 37,540 square metres and a saleable area of over 7.5 lakh square feet. It offers a vibrant lifestyle supported by world-class amenities, wellness offerings, and hospitality-inspired services, ensuring a fulfilling living experience for its residents. Aakash Ohri, Managing Director and Chief Business Officer of DLF Home Developers Ltd., expressed that The Aureva embodies DLF’s vision of redefining luxury retirement housing in India. He emphasised the project’s focus on delivering a holistic living environment that integrates wellness, hospitality, healthcare, and luxury. The development features a standalone tower with G+45 floors, offering spacious 4 BHK residences equipped with premium finishes, expansive private decks, and universally accessible design elements. The project has been developed in collaboration with globally renowned consultants, ensuring a high standard of design and sustainability. Its strategic location in Gurugram’s premium residential corridor provides seamless connectivity to major roads and essential city destinations, enhancing its appeal to potential homeowners. The successful sell-out of The Aureva underscores the growing market demand for experience-led residential offerings in India. Analysts believe that this trend reflects a shift in consumer preferences towards thoughtfully designed communities that prioritise wellbeing and convenience. DLF’s ability to anticipate and cater to these evolving aspirations continues to reinforce its position as a leader in the real estate sector, setting new benchmarks in luxury living. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Aurobindo Pharma secures USFDA approval for Perampanel tablets in multiple strengths October 3, 2026 Jaguar Land Rover reports robust sales growth in Q2 FY27 October 3, 2026 Bombay High Court reinstates de-registration and promoter change for Mahalaxmi project October 1, 2026 Hero MotoCorp reports 12% increase in September dispatches ahead of festive season October 1, 2026 Coal India increases coal supplies by 12.5% in September amid rising demand October 1, 2026 APL Apollo Tubes reports record sales volume in Q2FY27 October 1, 2026