Summary: The Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016 fundamentally reshaped India’s indirect tax architecture by creating the constitutional foundation for the Goods and Services Tax (GST). The Amendment introduced Articles 246A, 269A and 279A, establishing a distinctive framework of simultaneous Union-State legislative competence, taxation and apportionment of inter-State supplies, and institutional coordination through the GST Council. Article 246A gives Parliament and State Legislatures power to legislate on GST while reserving exclusive parliamentary competence over inter-State supplies. Article 269A provides for levy and collection of GST on inter-State supplies by the Union and its apportionment between the Union and States. Article 279A establishes the GST Council as the constitutional forum for recommendations on rates, exemptions, model laws and other structural aspects of GST. The constitutional significance of this framework was examined by the Supreme Court in Union of India v M/s Mohit Minerals Pvt Ltd. The Court clarified that GST Council recommendations do not themselves bind Parliament and State Legislatures while exercising their primary legislative powers under Article 246A; they have persuasive value within the constitutional framework of cooperative federalism. The judgment preserves legislative authority while recognising the Council’s central coordinating function. The 101st Amendment therefore represents not merely a tax reform but a constitutional reconfiguration of fiscal federalism designed to combine national tax harmonisation with continuing participation and legislative authority of the States. Table of Contents▸ 1. Introduction 2. From Fragmented Indirect Taxation to GST 3. The Constitutional Architecture Created by the 101st Amendment 4. Article 246A: Reallocation of Legislative Power 5. Article 269A and the Treatment of Inter-State Supplies 6. Article 279A and the GST Council 7. GST Council Recommendations: The Mohit Minerals Turning Point 8. Contemporary and Practical Significance 9. Critical Discussion 10. Suggestions 11. Conclusion Show all 11 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 1. Introduction The introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) in India was not merely a legislative reform; it required a constitutional restructuring of the distribution of taxing powers between the Union and the States. Before GST, India’s indirect tax system was divided across several taxes and taxing authorities. The constitutional scheme distributed legislative competence over different forms of taxation between Parliament and State Legislatures. Because GST was designed as a destination-based tax on the supply of goods and services, the existing constitutional allocation of powers could not simply be retained. The Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016 therefore became the constitutional foundation of the GST regime. It received Presidential assent on 8 September 2016 and introduced, among other changes, Articles 246A, 269A and 279A. These provisions created a new model of simultaneous Union-State legislative competence, a constitutional mechanism for taxing inter-State supplies, and the Goods and Services Tax Council as a joint institutional forum. The GST Council describes the Amendment as conferring simultaneous power upon Parliament and State Legislatures to make laws governing GST and creating the constitutional Council. [1] This blog examines how the 101st Amendment reshaped India’s indirect tax architecture and, more importantly, how its constitutional design has operated in practice. Particular attention is given to the Supreme Court’s decision in Union of India v M/s Mohit Minerals Pvt Ltd, where the Court analysed the relationship between Articles 246A and 279A and clarified the legal character of GST Council recommendations. The case demonstrates that constitutional reform does not end with the text of an amendment: its practical meaning also develops through judicial interpretation. 2. From Fragmented Indirect Taxation to GST Prior to GST, indirect taxation was characterised by multiple central and state-level levies. The Union exercised powers over central excise duty and service tax, while States imposed taxes including VAT/sales tax and various other levies. The fragmented structure created separate taxable events, compliance mechanisms and administrative interfaces. It also generated the possibility of cascading, particularly where credit mechanisms did not operate across different taxes. The constitutional challenge was significant. GST sought to tax the broader concept of ‘supply’ rather than preserving separate constitutional taxing entries for goods and services. The 101st Amendment consequently altered the constitutional framework itself. It amended Articles 246, 248, 249, 250, 268, 269, 270, 271, 286 and 366, inserted Articles 246A, 269A and 279A, and made corresponding changes to the Seventh Schedule and other provisions. [2] The reform therefore represented a movement from a constitutionally segmented tax structure towards a coordinated tax framework. However, it did not abolish fiscal federalism. Instead, it created a distinctive model in which the Union and States retain legislative competence while coordinating through a constitutionally recognised institution. 3. The Constitutional Architecture Created by the 101st Amendment The central constitutional innovations may be understood through three provisions: Article 246A, Article 269A and Article 279A. Together they address three different questions: who can legislate on GST, who controls taxation of inter-State supplies, and how the Union and States coordinate GST policy. Provision Core function Constitutional significance Article 246A Legislative power over GST Simultaneous power of Parliament and State Legislatures; Parliament has exclusive power for inter-State supplies. Article 269A Inter-State GST Union levies and collects IGST on inter-State supplies, with apportionment between Union and States. Article 279A GST Council Creates a constitutional forum for Union-State coordination and recommendations on GST. Article 366(12A) Definition of GST Defines GST as a tax on supply of goods, services or both, subject to the constitutional exclusion of alcoholic liquor for human consumption. 4. Article 246A: Reallocation of Legislative Power Article 246A is one of the most important constitutional provisions introduced by the Amendment. It provides that, notwithstanding Articles 246 and 254, Parliament and, subject to clause (2), the Legislature of every State have power to make laws with respect to GST imposed by the Union or by the State. Clause (2) gives Parliament exclusive power where the supply takes place in the course of inter-State trade or commerce. [3] This provision differs from the traditional distribution of legislative subjects in the Seventh Schedule. Rather than assigning Union and State powers through separate legislative entries, Article 246A creates a special and simultaneous constitutional competence. This design was necessary because GST operates across the traditional boundaries between goods and services and because the taxable event is the supply rather than the earlier fragmented categories of manufacture, sale or provision of services. Article 246A therefore preserves an important element of State fiscal authority while simultaneously enabling national coordination. It is better understood as a constitutional reconfiguration of federal taxation rather than a simple transfer of power from the States to the Union. 5. Article 269A and the Treatment of Inter-State Supplies Article 269A addresses the special problem of inter-State taxation. It provides that GST on supplies in the course of inter-State trade or commerce shall be levied and collected by the Government of India and apportioned between the Union and States in the manner provided by Parliament by law on the recommendations of the GST Council. Imports into India are treated as inter-State supplies for this purpose. [4] The provision is important for both revenue allocation and administrative practicality. An inter-State supply cannot be treated as purely belonging to one State because the economic transaction crosses State boundaries. Article 269A therefore creates a constitutional mechanism through which the Union collects the tax and the revenue is subsequently apportioned. Article 269A also illustrates the broader constitutional philosophy of GST. The system requires coordination between taxation, place of supply, collection and revenue sharing. The constitutional amendment thus combines legislative competence with an institutional framework for managing the financial consequences of inter-State commerce. 6. Article 279A and the GST Council Article 279A requires the President to constitute the Goods and Services Tax Council. Its membership includes the Union Finance Minister as Chairperson, the Union Minister of State in charge of Revenue or Finance, and a minister nominated by each State Government. The Council is consequently designed as a joint Union-State forum rather than a purely central institution. [5] Article 279A(4) assigns the Council a broad recommendation-making role. It includes recommendations concerning taxes, cesses and surcharges that may be subsumed into GST; goods and services that may be taxed or exempted; model GST laws; principles of levy and apportionment; place-of-supply principles; turnover thresholds; GST rates; special rates for specified periods; and special provisions for certain States. The Council is also required to be guided by the need for a harmonised GST structure and the development of a harmonised national market. [6] The voting mechanism is also constitutionally significant. A decision requires a majority of not less than three-fourths of the weighted votes of members present and voting. The Union Government’s vote carries one-third of the total weight and the States collectively carry two-thirds. This arrangement seeks to prevent either side from exercising unilateral control while encouraging consensus-based tax policy. The GST Council therefore occupies a distinctive constitutional position. It is not itself a legislature, but its recommendations form an important part of the institutional process through which GST policy is coordinated. 7. GST Council Recommendations: The Mohit Minerals Turning Point The constitutional meaning of the GST Council became a major issue in Union of India v M/s Mohit Minerals Pvt Ltd, decided by the Supreme Court on 19 May 2022. The case arose in the context of an IGST levy relating to ocean freight in CIF import transactions, but the judgment also addressed the constitutional architecture of GST and the nature of GST Council recommendations. [7] The Supreme Court examined Articles 246A and 279A and rejected the proposition that GST Council recommendations automatically bind Parliament and State Legislatures. The Court explained that Article 246A gives simultaneous legislative power to Parliament and State Legislatures, while Article 279A assigns the GST Council the function of making recommendations. The Court treated the recommendations as having persuasive value in the constitutional scheme rather than as legislation in themselves. [8] This distinction is constitutionally important. If GST Council recommendations themselves became binding law, the ordinary legislative competence expressly granted to Parliament and State Legislatures under Article 246A could be substantially displaced. The judgment therefore preserves the constitutional role of elected legislatures while recognising the GST Council as a central mechanism for cooperative decision-making. At the same time, the judgment should not be understood as making the GST Council institutionally irrelevant. Its constitutional function remains extensive: it provides a forum in which Union and State representatives deliberate over the structure of GST, rates, exemptions, model laws and other matters. The practical success of the system continues to depend heavily upon coordination even though a recommendation is not, by itself, a substitute for legislation. The case consequently illustrates a broader principle of constitutional design: institutional coordination and legislative sovereignty can coexist. The GST framework does not require the Council to become a super-legislature. Instead, it creates a constitutional platform for harmonisation while retaining legislative authority in the Union and State institutions identified by Article 246A. 8. Contemporary and Practical Significance The practical significance of the 101st Amendment is visible in the functioning of GST as a national tax system. Businesses operating across State boundaries can work within a common constitutional and statutory framework rather than navigating completely separate indirect tax systems. Inter-State supplies are addressed through the IGST architecture, while intra-State supplies operate through the CGST and corresponding State GST laws. For taxpayers, the constitutional architecture matters because it underpins the validity and institutional structure of the statutory GST regime. Questions about rates, classification, exemptions, place of supply, input tax credit and inter-State transactions frequently involve the interaction between legislation, delegated legislation, GST Council recommendations and judicial interpretation. The 101st Amendment is also significant for fiscal federalism. States continue to participate directly in GST policy through the Council, but they operate within a system designed to harmonise taxation across India. This produces an institutional trade-off: harmonisation can reduce fragmentation, while uniformity can constrain the ability of individual States to pursue entirely independent indirect-tax policies. The Supreme Court’s reasoning in Mohit Minerals adds another practical dimension. By clarifying that Council recommendations do not automatically become binding law, the Court reinforces the need for the proper constitutional and legislative route when a GST policy is translated into enforceable legal obligations. This can improve clarity about the respective roles of the Council, legislatures and executive authorities. 9. Critical Discussion One major strength of the constitutional design is that it recognises GST as a tax requiring cooperation rather than treating it as an exclusively central or exclusively State subject. Article 246A creates simultaneous competence; Article 269A provides a mechanism for inter-State supplies; and Article 279A institutionalises consultation. These provisions form a coherent constitutional response to the economic reality of an integrated national market. However, the model also creates potential tensions. First, simultaneous legislative power can generate questions about uniformity and divergence between central and State laws. Secondly, the GST Council’s recommendation-making role requires careful distinction between political or institutional consensus and legally enforceable legislation. Thirdly, the voting structure means that decision-making is weighted rather than based on one-State-one-vote equality. The design therefore reflects a negotiated balance rather than a conventional federal voting model. Another challenge is the relationship between constitutional principles and rapidly changing tax administration. GST operates through detailed legislation, rules, notifications, circulars and digital compliance systems. The constitutional framework supplies the authority and institutional structure, but taxpayers experience the regime through these operational instruments. This makes accurate delegation, clear drafting and judicial oversight particularly important. Finally, Mohit Minerals demonstrates that the constitutional meaning of GST continues to develop through adjudication. The decision does not eliminate the importance of the GST Council; rather, it clarifies that coordination cannot replace constitutionally assigned legislative competence. The continuing challenge is therefore to maintain policy harmonisation while respecting the constitutional roles of Parliament and State Legislatures. 10. Suggestions GST Council recommendations should be translated into binding obligations only through the constitutionally and statutorily appropriate legislative or delegated-legislation process. Drafting of GST legislation, rules and notifications should clearly distinguish between the policy recommendation made by the Council and the legal instrument that creates enforceable obligations. Inter-State tax measures should continue to receive particular scrutiny because Article 269A involves both collection and revenue apportionment between the Union and States. Greater accessibility of official GST Council decisions, explanatory materials and legislative implementation documents can improve taxpayer understanding and legal certainty. Judicial interpretation should continue to preserve the balance between national harmonisation and the legislative competence of the Union and States under Article 246A. 11. Conclusion The 101st Constitutional Amendment Act, 2016 transformed India’s indirect tax architecture by creating a constitutional foundation specifically designed for GST. Its significance lies not merely in introducing another tax but in redesigning the constitutional distribution and coordination of taxing powers. Article 246A established simultaneous legislative competence, Article 269A created the constitutional framework for inter-State GST, and Article 279A established the GST Council as the principal Union-State forum for GST coordination. The amendment therefore represents a distinctive form of fiscal federalism. It seeks to combine a harmonised national market with continuing participation by the States. The Supreme Court’s decision in Mohit Minerals is particularly significant because it clarified that GST Council recommendations do not themselves become legislation binding on Parliament and State Legislatures. This preserves the constitutional role of legislatures while maintaining the Council’s central coordinating function. Ultimately, the effectiveness of the GST constitutional framework depends on maintaining the balance embedded in the 101st Amendment: harmonisation without eliminating federal participation, coordination without replacing legislative authority, and efficient taxation without weakening constitutional accountability. The Amendment has therefore not simply reorganised indirect taxation; it has created a continuing constitutional dialogue between the Union, the States, legislatures, executive authorities and courts. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: Maposa Anopaishe Violet Qualification: Graduate Location: Harare, Harare Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Maposa Anopaishe Violet Taxable Event under GST: Understanding ‘Supply’ as Foundation of Indirect Taxation in India February 23, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Admitted Receipt of GST Show Cause Notice Defeats No-Notice Plea: Gauhati HC October 1, 2026 Madras High Court: KVB Sponsorship Demand Fails as Extended Limitation Was Unproved October 1, 2026 Section 74 Demand Without Mandatory Show Cause Notice Invalid: GSTAT Kolkata October 1, 2026 Documentary GST Fraud Probe Does Not Automatically Justify Arrest: Telangana HC October 1, 2026 ₹7.26 Crore ITC Demand: Section 16(2)(c) ITC Condition Constitutionally Valid: Delhi HC October 1, 2026 Rule 86A ITC Block Not Automatically Lifted Despite Fresh Hearing Opportunity: Karnataka HC October 1, 2026