Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/41 Date: June 21, 2023 The Company Secretary/Resolution Professional All Listed Companies Subject: Seeking of comments / feedback on the XBRL being introduced for submission of Announcements pertaining to Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (‘CIRP’). 1. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this document is to seek comments / feedback on the proposal to migrate from Portable Document Format (PDF) to eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) format for submitting various corporate announcements for CIRP stages as required under the provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI LODR), applicable relevant provisions, circulars, guidance note, etc. as amended from time to time. 2. BACKGROUND: Listed entities are required to file the disclosures with the Stock Exchange(s) within prescribed timelines as laid down in SEBI LODR and accordingly it was mandated to report XBRL based filings for financials from year 2015 onwards. Over the period, Stock Exchanges in phased manner has been aiming to convert filings made under SEBI LODR and/or any other disclosure w.r.t. compliance of any SEBI Act, Regulation, Circular or provision from PDF to XBRL. With an objective to standardise securities market data it was deliberated that XBRL would be implemented for all corporate filings. Accordingly, Stock Exchanges have implemented XBRL based compliance filing mechanism featuring identical and homogenous compliance data structures which will not only ease the compliance burden on listed entities but also will enable analysis on the data submitted by the listed entities. Hence in this regard, filing of announcement pertaining to the aforementioned subject, would require listed entities to file the same in XBRL exclusively, formats of which are made available as Annexure. 3. ISSUES AND DELIBERATIONS: Please note that the details required are typically descriptive in nature and based on the SEBI LODR or any other disclosure w.r.t. compliance of any SEBI Act, Regulation, Circular or provision. Accordingly, listed entities can provide their comments/ feedback/suggestions/observations pertaining to any additions/modifications in the fields of the attached format. 4. COMMENTS FROM LISTED ENTITIES Considering the implications of the XBRL filing by listed entities, comments in respect of the subject are solicited. Comments may be sent by email to DL-Announcement@nse.co.in in the following format: Name of entity / person: Contact Number & Email Address: Sr. No Event: Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process Subject/Heading/ Field Comments/ Suggestions Detailed Rationale While sending email, kindly mention the subject as “Comments / Feedback on the XBRL being introduced for CIRP.” The comments may be sent by email to DL-Announcement@nse.co.in latest by June 25, 2023. Enclosed is the draft format for the XBRL being introduced. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Dhaval Shah Manager – Listing Encl: Format for XBRL being introduced for Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process. Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) General Information SR. NO. PARTICULARS SUB-PARTICULARS Mandatory/Non- Mandatory field 1 NSE Symbol Mandatory 2 Name of the Company Mandatory 3 BSE Scrip Code Mandatory 4 MSE Symbol Mandatory 5 ISIN Mandatory 7 Type of Announcement 1. New 2. Update 3. Revised Mandatory 6 Type of Event A. Application filed by the Company B. Application filed by the Financial Creditors C. Initiation of CIRP pursuant to NCLT order D. Rejection/Withdrawal/Stay of application E. Appointment/ Replacement of the Resolution Professional F. Prior or Post-facto intimation of the meetings of Committee of Creditors G. Number of resolution plans received by Resolution Professional H. Filing of resolution plan with the Tribunal I. Prior intimation for Consideration of Resolution Plan by NCLT J. Approval or Rejection of Resolution plan by the Tribunal K. Liquidation L. Others Mandatory 8 Date of initial announcement Mandatory 9 Date of latest announcement Mandatory 10 Date of Original announcement Mandatory 10 Remarks (website dissemination) Non-Mandatory 11 Remarks for Exchange (not for Website Dissemination) Non-Mandatory 12 Date of Report Mandatory A. Application filed by the Listed Entity for Initiation of CIRP with NCLT 13 Date of Board Meeting in which the CIRP event was approved Mandatory 14 Reasons for opting CIRP Mandatory 15 Whether the same is approved by shareholders 1.Yes 2. No Mandatory 16 Date of Shareholders Meeting Mandatory 17 If no selected, provide reasons for the same Mandatory 18 Details of default in Financial Obligations as on date (Amount in INR Lacs) Mandatory 19 Whether the details of default were intimated to the Exchange in compliance with SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2019/140 dated November 21, 2019 1.Yes 2. No Mandatory 20 Date of Initial disclosure pertaining to default in Financial obligation Mandatory 21 If no selected, provide reasons for the same Mandatory 22 Date of filing application with NCLT for Initiation of CIRP, if any Non-Mandatory 23 Any other details Non-Mandatory B. Application filed by the Financial Creditors 24 Date of filing application with NCLT Mandatory 25 Details of Financial Creditor who have filed the application with NCLT 1. Add Row 2. Delete Row Mandatory Sr. No. Name of the Applicant Amount alleged to be in default (INR Lakh) 26 Whether the details of default were intimated to the Exchange in compliance with SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2019/140 dated November 21, 2019 1. Yes 2. No Mandatory 27 Date of Initial disclosure pertaining to default in financial obligation in compliance with the aforementioned SEBI Circular Mandatory 28 If no selected, provide reasons for the same Mandatory 29 Any other details Non-Mandatory C. Initiation of CIRP pursuant to NCLT order 30 Date of NCLT order Mandatory 31 Whether the application filed by Financial Creditor for Initiation of CIRP was intimated to the Exchange 1. Yes 2. No Mandatory 32 Date of disclosure Mandatory 33 If no selected, provide reasons for the same Mandatory 34 Details of Creditor who have filed the application with NCLT 1. Add Row 2. Delete Row Mandatory Sr. No. Name of the Applicant Amount alleged to be in default (INR Lakh) 35 Whether the Company is in receipt of copy of NCLT order 1. Yes 2. No Mandatory Infotip: The company shall on receipt of the copy of NCLT order intimate the order to the Exchange 36 Brief details of the NCLT order Mandatory Details of the Interim/Resolution Professional appointed by NCLT 37 Salutation 1. Mr. 2. Ms. Mandatory 38 Name Mandatory 39 Contact details/Mobile Number Mandatory 40 Email id Mandatory 41 Any other details Non-Mandatory D. Rejection or Withdrawal or Stay on application 42 Type of Event 1. Rejection 2. Withdrawal 3. Stay 4. Others Mandatory 43 Description of Others Mandatory 44 Date of relevant authority order Mandatory 45 Details of settlement with Creditors Mandatory 46 Reasons for rejection/withdrawal/stay on application/others Mandatory 47 Whether the Company is in receipt of copy of relevant authority order 1. Yes 2. No Mandatory 48 Infotip: The company shall on receipt of the copy of relevant authority order intimate the order to the Exchange Mandatory 49 Brief details of the relevant authority order Mandatory 50 Any other details Non-Mandatory E. Appointment/ Replacement of the Resolution Professional 51 Type of Event 1. Appointment 2. Replacement 3. Others Mandatory 52 Description of Others Mandatory 53 Rationale for Appointment / Replacement / Others Mandatory 54 Date of COC Meeting approving the same Mandatory 55 Date of NCLT order Mandatory Details of the Interim/Resolution Professional 56 Salutation 1. Mr. 2. Ms. Mandatory 57 Name Mandatory 58 Contact details/Mobile Number Mandatory 59 Email id Mandatory 60 Whether the Company is in receipt of copy of NCLT order 1. Yes 2. No Mandatory Infotip: The company shall on receipt of the copy of NCLT order intimate the order to the Exchange Mandatory 61 Any other details Non-Mandatory F. Prior or Post-facto intimation of the meetings of Committee of Creditors 62 Type of Event 1. Prior Intimation 2. Post-facto Intimation Mandatory 63 Date of Meeting Mandatory 64 Number of Committee Meeting Mandatory 65 Agenda item to be discussed or already discussed in the meeting 1. Add Agenda 2. Delete Agenda Mandatory Sr No. Agenda Item Description of the item 66 Any other details Non-Mandatory G. Number of resolution plans received by Resolution Professional 67 Date of Issuance of Form inviting Expression of Interest Mandatory 68 Details of Prospective Resolution Applicants 1. Add Row 2. Delete Row Mandatory Sr. No. Name of the Applicant Details of the Applicant 69 Any other details Non-Mandatory H. Filing of resolution plan with the NCLT 70 Date of Approval of Resolution Plan by Committee of Creditors Mandatory 71 Brief details of the successful Resolution Applicant Mandatory 72 Date of filing of resolution plan with the NCLT Mandatory 73 Any other details Non-Mandatory I. Prior intimation for Consideration of Resolution Plan by NCLT 74 Date of filing of resolution plan with the NCLT Mandatory 75 Date of NCLT Hearing for Consideration of Resolution Plan Mandatory 76 Any other details Non-Mandatory J. Approval or Rejection of Resolution plan by the NCLT 77 Type of Event 1. Rejection of Resolution Plan 2. Approval of Resolution Plan Mandatory 78 Reasons for Rejection of Resolution Plan Mandatory 79 Whether the Company is in receipt of copy of NCLT order 1. Yes 2. No Mandatory Infotip: The company shall on receipt of the copy of NCLT order intimate the order to the Exchange 80 Date of NCLT order Mandatory 81 Any other details Non-Mandatory 82 Type of Resolution Plan 1. Continuous Listing 2. Capital Reduction 3. Delisting with Zero Value 4. Delisting with Value 5. Others Mandatory 83 Description of Others Mandatory 84 Whether the Company is in receipt of copy of NCLT order 1. Yes 2. No Mandatory Infotip: The company shall on receipt of the copy of NCLT order intimate the order to the Exchange Mandatory 85 Date of NCLT order Mandatory Salient features of the Resolution Plan approved by NCLT 86 Pre and Post net-worth of the company Mandatory 87 Details of assets of the company post CIRP Mandatory 88 Details of securities continuing to be imposed on the companies’ assets Mandatory 89 Other material liabilities imposed on the company Mandatory 90 Detailed pre and post shareholding pattern assuming 100% conversion of convertible securities Mandatory 91 Details of Pre Shareholding Promoter and Promoter Group Public Number of shares* Percentage* Number of shares* Percentage* 92 Details of funds infused in the company, creditors paid-off Mandatory 93 Additional liability on the incoming investors due to the transaction, source of such funding etc Mandatory 94 Impact on the investor Mandatory 95 Names of the new promoters, key managerial persons(s), if any and their past experience in the business or employment. In case where promoters are companies, history of such company and names of natural persons in control Mandatory 96 Brief description of business strategy Mandatory 97 The details as to the delisting plans, if any approved in the resolution plan Mandatory 98 Any other details Non-Mandatory K. Liquidation Pursuant to CIRP 99 Type of Event 1. Initiation of Liquidation 2. Stay on Liquidation 3. Closure of Liquidation Mandatory Initiation of Liquidation 100 Date of NCLT order Mandatory 101 Whether the Company is in receipt of copy of NCLT order 1.Yes 2. No Mandatory Infotip: The company shall on receipt of the copy of NCLT order intimate the order to the Exchange 102 Brief details of the NCLT order Mandatory 103 Reasons for Initiation of Liquidation Mandatory Details of the Liquidator appointed by NCLT 104 Salutation 1.Mr. 2.Ms. Mandatory 105 Name Mandatory 106 Contact details/Mobile Number Mandatory 107 Email id Mandatory 108 Any other details Non-Mandatory Stay on Liquidation 109 Date of relevant authority order Mandatory 110 Reasons for Stay on Liquidation Mandatory 111 Whether the Company is in receipt of copy of relevant authority order 1. Yes 2. No Mandatory Infotip: The company shall on receipt of the copy of relevant authority order intimate the order to the Exchange Mandatory 112 Brief details of the relevant authority order Mandatory 113 Any other details Non-Mandatory Closure of Liquidation 114 Date of NCLT order Mandatory 115 Whether the Company is in receipt of copy of NCLT order 1. Yes 2. No Mandatory Infotip: The company shall on receipt of the copy of NCLT order intimate the order to the Exchange Mandatory 116 Brief details of the NCLT order Mandatory 117 Brief details of the Acquirer, if any. Mandatory 118 Whether the Acquirer intends to delist the Company 1. Yes 2. No Mandatory 119 Brief details of repayment of dues to the Creditors Mandatory 120 Any other details Non-Mandatory L. Others 121 Proposed steps to be taken by the incoming investor/acquirer for achieving the MPS Non-Mandatory 122 Whether the Company has ensured compliance with Minimum Public Shareholding 1. Yes 2. No Non-Mandatory 123 If no selected, provide reasons for the same Non-Mandatory 124 Quarterly disclosure of the status of achieving the MPS Non-Mandatory 125 Any other material information not involving commercial secrets Non-Mandatory 126 Any other details pertaining to CIRP Non-Mandatory