Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The Department of Consumer Affairs, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, is strengthening India’s Legal Metrology verification infrastructure through expansion of the Government Approved Test Centre (GATC) network. Following amendments to the Legal Metrology (Government Approved Test Centre) Rules, 2013, the scope of GATCs has been widened to cover 23 categories of weighing and measuring instruments across healthcare, energy, transport, retail, manufacturing, infrastructure and clean-energy sectors. Fresh applications have been received from industries, laboratories and technical institutions and are being examined for documentation, verification infrastructure, qualified personnel and site inspection. At present, 51 GATCs have been recognised, with further applications under consideration. Several States have also finalised and notified their GATC Rules in alignment with the amended central framework. The expanded verification scope includes water, gas and energy meters, breath analysers, vehicle speedometers, weighing instruments and dispensers for petrol, diesel, CNG, LPG, LNG and hydrogen. The initiative is intended to supplement State Legal Metrology infrastructure, allowing Legal Metrology Officers to focus on market surveillance, risk-based inspections, enforcement and consumer grievance redressal, while expanding technically competent verification facilities and supporting Ease of Doing Business and consumer protection. Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution GATC Network Expands to Strengthen Legal Metrology Verification Infrastructure Across the Country Fresh applications from industry, laboratories and technical institutions under process 51 Government Approved Test Centres already recognised; network set to expand further Several States notify GATC Rules in alignment with amended central framework Posted On: 15 SEP 2026 5:21PM by PIB Delhi The Department of Consumer Affairs, Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution, is strengthening the country’s Legal Metrology verification infrastructure through the expanding network of Government Approved Test Centres (GATCs). A fresh round of applications for recognition has received strong response from industry, laboratories and technical institutions across the country. Following amendments to the Legal Metrology (Government Approved Test Centre) Rules, 2013, the scope of GATCs has been broadened to cover 23 categories of weighing and measuring instruments across sectors including healthcare, energy, transport, retail, manufacturing, infrastructure and emerging clean-energy sectors. The Department has continued to invite eligible industries, laboratories, engineering colleges, polytechnics, ITIs and testing facilities to seek recognition as GATCs. Applications were once again invited through the Department’s online portal, with the latest application window receiving active response from prospective applicants. A number of applications have been received from eligible organisations following the latest call and are presently under process by the Department in consultation with the concerned State Legal Metrology Departments. The applications are being examined for: Completeness of documentation; Adequacy of verification infrastructure; Availability of qualified technical personnel; and Site inspection prior to grant of recognition. With 51 GATCs already recognised and a healthy pipeline of applications under active consideration, the GATC network is set to expand further in the coming months, widening the base of technically competent verification facilities available to industry and consumers. Key Highlights Fresh round of applications for GATC recognition invited, with strong response from industry, laboratories and technical institutions. Applications received are under process, with site inspections and technical verification being carried out in coordination with State Legal Metrology Departments. 51 GATCs have already been recognised, with the network set to expand further as more applications are approved. Several States have finalised and notified their own GATC Rules, aligning them with the amended central framework. Verification scope covers 23 categories of instruments, including water, gas and energy meters, breath analysers, vehicle speedometers, weighing instruments and fuel dispensers for petrol, diesel, CNG, LPG, LNG and hydrogen. The expanded network strengthens Ease of Doing Business while reinforcing consumer protection, in line with India’s status as an OIML Certification Authority. Several States align GATC Rules with amended central framework In a significant development reinforcing the Centre-State partnership underpinning the GATC framework, several States have finalised and notified their own GATC Rules in line with the amended central framework. This alignment at the State level is expected to further deepen the reach of the verification ecosystem, enable smoother coordination between State Legal Metrology Departments and recognised GATCs, and support faster and more localised verification services for businesses and consumers across the country. GATCs supplement State Legal Metrology infrastructure The expansion of the GATC network is a significant step in the Department’s ongoing efforts to modernise India’s Legal Metrology ecosystem. By enabling technically competent private institutions to undertake verification and re-verification of specified weights and measures, the initiative supplements the capacity of State Legal Metrology Departments. This allows Legal Metrology Officers to devote greater attention to: Market surveillance; Risk-based inspections; Enforcement against serious violations; and Consumer grievance redressal. Verification covers 23 categories of instruments The expanded GATC framework covers 23 categories of weighing and measuring instruments, including: Water, gas and energy meters; Breath analysers; Speedometers used to measure the speed of vehicles; Weighing instruments; and Fuel dispensers for petrol, diesel, CNG, LPG, LNG and hydrogen. As the network of GATCs continues to grow, supported by fresh applications and the alignment of State-level rules with the central framework, the Department is steadily building a larger, more accessible and technologically capable verification infrastructure. The expansion reflects the combined efforts of the Legal Metrology system to advance Ease of Doing Business while simultaneously strengthening consumer protection and confidence in everyday commercial transactions. The Department reiterates its commitment to building a transparent, technology-driven and self-reliant system of measurement verification that enhances fairness in trade and protects the interests of consumers across the country. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Government Policy Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Multiple Cheques Create Separate Causes of Action under Section 138 of NI Act: SC September 23, 2026 PIL Cannot Become Proxy Tender Dispute Between Rival Bidders: SC September 23, 2026 Advocate Gets 15-Day Jail for Baseless “Match-Fixing” Allegation: Karnataka HC September 23, 2026 Cross-FIR Not Automatic Merely Because Complaint Is Counter-Version: Delhi HC September 23, 2026 Expired Railway Way Leave Cannot Be Revived Through Resolution Plan: Calcutta HC September 23, 2026 Supreme Court Upholds Service Tax Exemption for IIT Patna and NIT Rourkela September 23, 2026