Stop GST Litigation Before It Starts: Five Simple Checkpoints Every Business Should Follow Summary: GST disputes generally develop through identifiable stages, giving businesses several opportunities to detect and address problems before they become expensive litigation. The first checkpoint is monthly reconciliation of GSTR-1, GSTR-3B and GSTR-2B so that liability and input tax credit mismatches can be corrected promptly. The second is a manual monthly review of expenses potentially attracting reverse charge, including legal fees, freight, rent, professional charges and director fees, because these liabilities may not be identified through automated return comparisons. The third checkpoint arises when a DRC-01A or DRC-01 is received: a prompt, factual and evidence-backed response can prevent an issue from becoming a confirmed demand and subsequent appeal. Businesses should also regularly monitor the GST portal’s “Payment towards Demand” section because a Demand ID and liability may appear there even where the underlying notice or order was missed. Finally, once a demand becomes known, the business should act within the prescribed period by either paying the liability or filing an appeal with the required pre-deposit before recovery proceedings begin. Together, these five checkpoints create successive lines of defence: reconciliation identifies mismatches, expense review detects reverse charge gaps, effective notice replies address disputes before adjudication, demand monitoring identifies missed orders, and timely payment or appeal helps prevent coercive recovery measures such as attachment of bank accounts or property. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Checkpoint 1: Compare Your Tax Liability and ITC Every Month Checkpoint 2: Review Reverse Charge (RCM) Payments Against Your Books Checkpoint 3: Reply Properly the Moment You Get a DRC-01A or DRC-01 Notice Checkpoint 4: Regularly Check the "Payment Towards Demand" Tab on the GST Portal Checkpoint 5: Act Before Recovery — Pay the Demand or Appeal With Pre-Deposit Before Attachment Bringing It All Together Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Most businesses only realise something is wrong with their GST filings when a notice arrives. By then, the tax department has already formed its own opinion, and the business is left playing defence — explaining, arguing, and often paying more than it should have, simply because nobody looked at the problem early enough. But GST litigation is rarely sudden. It builds up in stages, and at each stage, there is a chance to stop it before it grows bigger and more expensive. Based on how GST disputes actually unfold, there are five checkpoints every business can use to catch problems early and avoid unnecessary litigation. Checkpoint 1: Compare Your Tax Liability and ITC Every Month The very first place trouble usually starts is a mismatch between the different GST returns a business files every month. There are three numbers that need to match up: GSTR-1— what you have declared as your sales and tax liability GSTR-3B— what you have actually paid as tax GSTR-2B— the tax credit that shows up automatically based on what your suppliers have filed When these numbers don’t line up, the GST system notices it automatically. If your GSTR-1 shows a higher liability than what you paid in GSTR-3B, the system sends an automatic alert. If you claim more input tax credit than what appears in your GSTR-2B, that gets flagged too. If left unanswered, these small red flags eventually turn into a formal notice. The simple fix is to check these three numbers against each other every single month, right when you’re filing your return — not once a year, not when a notice shows up. If you catch a mismatch in the same month it happens, you can usually correct it in your very next return. It stays a small, easily explained issue instead of turning into a full year’s dispute with interest and penalty attached. This is not just a good habit — courts have repeatedly dealt with exactly this kind of dispute. In one important case involving a large company, the tax department raised a demand of over five crore rupees purely because the credit shown in GSTR-2A was higher than what the company had claimed in GSTR-3B. The Madras High Court set aside the order and gave the company a chance to submit its documents and be heard again. In another case, the Supreme Court refused to entertain the department’s appeal against a ruling that had gone in the taxpayer’s favour on this very issue. More recently, the GST Appellate Tribunal has made it clear that a mismatch between these two forms cannot, by itself, be treated as proof of wrongdoing — the department still has to check the actual invoices and evidence. What this tells us is important: these mismatches are heavily disputed in courts, and taxpayers often win when they can show proper records. But winning in court takes months or years and costs money. Catching the mismatch yourself, every month, avoids the fight altogether. Checkpoint 2: Review Reverse Charge (RCM) Payments Against Your Books The second checkpoint is different from the first, because it cannot be caught by comparing returns. It has to be caught by looking at your own expense records. Under the Reverse Charge Mechanism, certain expenses require the buyer, not the seller, to pay GST directly to the government. Common examples include legal and advocate fees, goods transport agency (GTA) freight charges, rent paid to an unregistered landlord in certain cases, import of services, sponsorship fees, and fees paid to company directors. The tricky part is that there is no invoice from a supplier showing this liability — because the supplier often isn’t even registered, or the law simply places the responsibility on you. This means the GST system cannot automatically flag it the way it flags a return mismatch. It only comes to light when someone — usually a tax officer during a review — manually goes through your expense ledger and asks, “did you pay reverse charge tax on this?” There’s another detail that trips people up: reverse charge tax must always be paid in cash, never through input tax credit. You can claim credit for it only after you’ve actually paid it in cash. The safeguard here is simple but requires discipline: go through your expense heads every month — legal fees, freight, rent, professional charges, director fees — and check whether reverse charge applied, and whether you paid it correctly and on time. Since this checkpoint depends entirely on your own bookkeeping and cannot rely on system alerts, it needs a deliberate, manual review rather than an automated one. Checkpoint 3: Reply Properly the Moment You Get a DRC-01A or DRC-01 Notice Even with careful monthly checks, some issues can still slip through — this is especially true for the reverse charge gaps mentioned above, which don’t trigger any automatic system warning. When that happens, the next checkpoint is how you respond the moment a notice arrives. Before a full, formal notice is issued, the department is required to first send an intimation called DRC-01A. This is essentially the department saying, “here is what we think you owe — you can pay it, or explain why you don’t.” If you respond properly at this stage, with a clear explanation and the right documents, many matters get closed right here, without ever escalating into a formal notice. If it does move forward, a formal Show Cause Notice (DRC-01) is issued, and your reply to it — filed as Form DRC-06 — becomes the single most important document in the entire case. A well-written, factual, evidence-backed reply at this point can get the matter dropped at this very stage, without ever needing to go to appeal. This matters enormously because most GST disputes don’t drag on for years because the underlying issue was impossible to resolve — they drag on because the first reply was weak, generic, late, or missing supporting documents. Once a demand is confirmed in a formal order, the only path forward is appeal, which brings a mandatory 10% upfront deposit, legal costs, and a process that can take years. So the message here is clear: treat your reply to a DRC-01A or DRC-01 notice as your best and cheapest opportunity to resolve the issue — because everything after this point becomes slower and costlier. Checkpoint 4: Regularly Check the “Payment Towards Demand” Tab on the GST Portal Here’s a genuine practical problem that many businesses face: sometimes, notices and orders are missed entirely — not because of carelessness, but because of how they are delivered. Most GST notices and orders are served only by uploading them to a specific section of the GST portal, usually under “View Notices & Orders.” Many businesses don’t check this section as often as their main return-filing dashboard. If nobody is watching it closely, or the person responsible changes, or a company has multiple GST registrations and one location isn’t monitored carefully, a notice — or even a final order — can go completely unnoticed. This is where a very useful, often overlooked feature of the GST portal comes in. The moment a tax officer passes a demand order, the system automatically creates a Demand ID and records it in Part II of your Electronic Liability Register, under a section called “Other than Return Related Liabilities.” You can see this by going to Services > Ledgers > Payment towards Demand on the GST portal. Here’s why this matters so much: this entry appears regardless of whether you saw the original notice or order or not. So even if you completely missed the show cause notice and the final order, checking this one tab regularly tells you, in black and white, whether a demand has been raised against your GSTIN — how much tax, interest, and penalty is involved, and against which Demand ID. This makes it an important safety-net checkpoint: a business that makes it a habit to check “Payment towards Demand” every month, alongside its regular return filings, gets one more chance to discover a missed demand early — while there’s still time to either pay it or file an appeal, rather than finding out only when recovery action has already started. Checkpoint 5: Act Before Recovery — Pay the Demand or Appeal With Pre-Deposit Before Attachment Once you know a demand exists — whether through a notice you received, or because you discovered it on the “Payment towards Demand” tab — the final checkpoint is how quickly and correctly you act on it. A business has three months (extendable by one more month for valid reasons) from the date of the order to file an appeal. There are two ways to act, and both stop the situation from getting worse: Pay the demand: If the liability is genuine and not worth disputing, paying it promptly through the “Payment towards Demand” tab (using cash or credit ledger balance) closes the matter immediately and stops interest and penalty from increasing further. Appeal with pre-deposit: If you want to contest the demand, filing an appeal along with the mandatory pre-deposit — 10% of the disputed tax amount — automatically puts recovery action against you on hold by law. If neither payment nor an appeal happens within the deadline, the department can move to recovery, which includes freezing bank accounts, attaching property, or recovering dues directly from your customers. The good news is that courts have been remarkably consistent in protecting taxpayers who act at this stage. The Supreme Court has upheld a ruling that once a business makes the required 10% pre-deposit, the department cannot continue coercive action like bank attachment. The Delhi High Court has ruled that provisional bank attachment becomes unsustainable the moment a business files an appeal with the pre-deposit, since the revenue’s interest is already protected by that payment. The Calcutta High Court has ordered attachments lifted for the same reason, even at the stage of a second appeal before the Appellate Tribunal — noting that since GST Tribunals are still not fully functional everywhere, High Courts often step in directly to stop taxpayers from being unfairly pressured while they are willing to follow the process. The takeaway is simple: once you know a demand exists, don’t wait. Either pay it or file your appeal with the pre-deposit before recovery action begins. Courts will protect you if you’ve followed the process — but only if you act before the attachment happens, not after. Getting an already-frozen bank account released is a far harder and slower fight than preventing the freeze in the first place. Bringing It All Together Each of these five checkpoints acts as a line of defence, and each one is meant to catch what the previous one might have missed: Monthly reconciliation of GSTR-1, 3B, and 2B — catches mismatches before the system even flags them Monthly review of reverse charge expenses— catches what no automatic system can detect A prompt, well-prepared reply at the DRC-01A or DRC-01 stage — resolves the issue before it becomes a confirmed demand Regularly checking the “Payment towards Demand” tab— catches a demand even if the original notice or order was completely missed Paying the demand or appealing with pre-deposit without delay— the last shield before any bank or property attachment Followed consistently, this framework doesn’t just reduce the chances of litigation — it changes the entire nature of GST compliance for a business. Instead of firefighting notices and orders that appear without warning, a business ends up dealing with small, routine corrections each month. That difference alone saves significant time, money, legal costs, and the stress of dealing with frozen accounts or prolonged court battles — while also keeping the business’s relationship with the tax department far smoother for the future. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: Adv S RAJENDRAN Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Location: Thiruvallur, Tamil Nadu Articles Published: 9 View full profile → More from Adv S RAJENDRAN E-Way Bill Enforcement & Need for a Practical Mechanism to Protect Small Traders March 14, 2026 Judicial Necessity for Simplified GST Registration under GST 2.0 from 1st Nov 2025 November 2, 2025 UPI: India’s Success Story of Digital Payments Revolution September 19, 2025 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Missing Sales & Purchase Invoices: GST Revocation Application Permitted by Telangana HC September 24, 2026 GST Cancellation Appeal Allowed With Delay Condonation Plea: Telangana HC September 24, 2026 GST Portal Communication Facility for Supplier-Recipient Document Issues September 24, 2026 GST Refund Deficiency Memo Invalid Beyond Rule 90(2) Scope: Kerala HC September 24, 2026 What Counts as a Supply? Decoding Section 7 and GST Taxable Event September 24, 2026 Constitutional Foundation of GST: Articles, Powers & Cooperative Federalism September 24, 2026