Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13983 Case Name Linde Engineering India Private Limited Vs C.C.E. & S.T.-Vadodara-I (CESTAT Ahmedabad) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All CESTAT, CESTAT Ahmedabad Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Linde Engineering India Private Limited Vs C.C.E. & S.T.-Vadodara-I (CESTAT Ahmedabad) Summary: CESTAT Ahmedabad allowed the appeal of Linde Engineering India Private Limited and set aside the Service Tax demand on Rs. 38,30,162/- recovered from employees as notice pay during financial years 2015-16 and 2016-17. The appellant was engaged in providing taxable output services including consulting engineering, erection, commissioning and installation, and construction services. During audit, the Department noticed that the appellant had recovered notice pay from employees who left employment without serving the notice period stipulated in their employment contracts. Treating such recovery as consideration for “agreeing to an obligation to refrain from an act, or to tolerate an act or a situation or to do an act” under Section 66E(e) of the Finance Act, 1994, the Department demanded Service Tax of Rs. 5,42,310/- under Section 73(1), together with interest and penalties. The adjudicating authority confirmed the demand and the Commissioner (Appeals) upheld it. CESTAT found that the issue was no longer res integra and followed Rajasthan Rajya Vidhyut Prasaran Nigam Limited Vs Commissioner of Central Excise and Service Tax, Jodhpur I, 2022 (1) TMI 909 (CESTAT New Delhi). That decision distinguished “consideration” received for contractual performance from “compensation” arising when a party reneges upon or fails to perform the contract. The Tribunal reiterated that Section 66E(e) applies where refraining from an act, tolerating an act or situation, or doing an act is itself the essence of the agreement and consideration is paid for that activity. Compensation predetermined under a contract for its breach does not become consideration merely because its amount is fixed in advance. In the employment context, notice-period provisions facilitate alternative arrangements where either employer or employee terminates employment; compensation for failure to give the required notice is not the purpose or consideration of the employment contract. The relied-upon decision had also followed GE T&D India Ltd. Vs Deputy Commissioner of Central Excise, where the Madras High Court held that notice pay in lieu of sudden termination does not result in rendition of service either by the employer or employee. Since the facts of Linde Engineering were similar, CESTAT followed that precedent, held the impugned order-in-appeal to be without merit, set it aside and allowed the appeal. The source records notice-pay recovery of Rs. 38,30,162/- and a Service Tax demand of Rs. 5,42,310/-. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”0″} Cases Discussed Rajasthan Rajya Vidhyut Prasaran Nigam Limited Vs Commissioner of Central Excise and Service Tax, Jodhpur I (CESTAT New Delhi), 2022 (1) TMI 909 — Followed directly; held that notice pay recovered from employees resigning without serving the requisite notice period is compensation for failure under the employment contract and not consideration for a taxable service under Section 66E(e). M/s. Repco Home Finance Ltd. (CESTAT Larger Bench), Service Tax Appeal No. 511 of 2011-LB, Miscellaneous Order No. 40053/2020 dated 08.06.2020 — Referred to in the reproduced precedent for holding that Service Tax cannot be charged on loan pre-payment charges. South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. (CESTAT Delhi), 2020-TIOL-1711-CESTAT-DEL — Referred to for holding that contractual penalties received for breach or non-observance of contractual terms are not taxable under Section 66E(e). MNH Shakti Ltd. (CESTAT Kolkata), 2021-TIOL-732-CESTAT-KOL — Referred to for setting aside Service Tax under Section 66E(e) on compensation received following cancellation of coal blocks. Ruchi Soya Ltd. (CESTAT Delhi), 2021-TIOL-402-CESTAT-DEL — Referred to for holding that compensation received because agreed machine-availability standards were not achieved was not taxable under Section 66E(e). GE T&D India Ltd. (Madras High Court), 2019 (12) TMI 1566 — Followed in the reproduced Rajasthan Rajya Vidhyut Prasaran Nigam decision for holding that notice pay in lieu of sudden termination does not give rise to rendition of service either by the employer or employee. Intas Pharmaceuticals (CESTAT Ahmedabad), 2021-TIOL-367-CESTAT-AHM — Noted as having followed GE T&D India Ltd. on the taxability of notice-pay recovery. State Street Syntel Services Pvt. Ltd. (CESTAT Mumbai), 2021-TIOL-152-CESTAT-MUM — Noted as having followed GE T&D India Ltd. on notice-pay recovery. Shri Ram Pistons and Rings Ltd. (CESTAT Allahabad), 2020 (42) GSTL 79 (Tri-All) — Noted as having followed GE T&D India Ltd. on notice-pay recovery. HCL Learning Ltd. (CESTAT Allahabad), 2019-TIOL-3545-CESTAT-All — Noted as another decision following GE T&D India Ltd. FULL TEXT OF THE CESTAT AHMEDABAD ORDER The brief facts of the matter are that the appellant is engaged in business of providing taxable output service under category of consulting engineering service, erection, commissioning and installation service, construction services for commercial and industrial institutions etc. The department during the course of audit has noticed that the appellant has recovered an amount of Rs. 38,30,162/- during the financial years 2015-16 to 2016-17 from their employees towards ‘notice pay’ that is amount recovered by the employer from the employee who do not serve the notice period as provided in the employment contract. The department is of the view that as per Clause (e) of the section 66E of the Finance Act, 1994 this fact is covered by the category of ‘Agreeing to an obligation to refrain from an act, or to tolerate an act or a situation or to do an act.” 2. The department was of the view that the incident of recovering amount (notice pay from the employees) is covered under category of the declared service and therefore the appellant should have paid service tax of Rs.5,42,310/- on the bond amounts secured by them from their employees. A show cause notice dated 13.03.2018 came to be issued demanding service tax of Rs.5,42,310/- under section 73(1) of the Finance Act, 1994 interest and penal provisions as provided under Finance Act, 1994 have also been invoked in the impugned show cause notice. The matter was adjudicated vide impugned order-in-original 13.02.2019 and all the charges as invoked in the show cause notice has been confirmed by the learned adjudicating authority. 3. The appellant has filed an appeal before the Commissioner (Appeals) who vide his impugned order-in-appeal dated 23th May, 2019 has upheld the impugned order-in-original. Holding that the impugned order-in-original is legally sustainable and the appellant are required to pay service tax as per the provisions of section 66E(e) of the Finance Act, 1994. 4. We have heard both the sides, we find that the issue it hand is no longer res integra as the matter has already been decided by this Tribunal in case of Rajasthan Rajya Vidhyut Prasaran Nigam Limited Vs. Commissioner of Central Excise and Service Tax Jodhpur I reported under 2022 (1) TMI 909 CESTAT New Delhi the relevant extract of the above decision is reproduced here:- “5. The question which falls for consideration is “whether the amounts received or recovered by the employer from its employees for resigning from the service without giving the requisite notice is exigible to Service Tax as a declared Service under Section 66E(e) of the Finance Act, 1994 or not.” 6. During the relevant period, service tax was leviable under section 66B on all services, other than those included in the negative list. Service was defined to mean any service carried out for a consideration and included ‘declared services’ Declared services were defined to mean any activity carried out by a person for another person for consideration and declaration as such under section 66E. Section 66E included ‘agreeing to the obligation to refrain from an act, or to tolerate an act or a situation, or to do an act’. The legal provisions as applicable during the relevant period were as follows: SECTION 65B. Interpretations. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires.- (22) “Declared service” means any activity carried out by a person for another person for consideration and declared as such under section 66E; (44) “service” means any activity carried out by a person for another for consideration, and includes a declared service, but shall not include- (a) an activity which constitutes merely:- (i) a transfer of title in goods or immovable property, by way of sale, gift or in any other manner, or (ii) such transfer, delivery or supply of any goods which is deemed to be a sale within the meaning of clause (29A) of article 366 of the Constitution, or (iii) a transaction in money or actionable claim, (b) a provision of service by an employee to the employer in the course of or in relation to his employment, (c) fees taken in any Court or tribunal established under any law for the time being SECTION 66B. Charge of service tax on and after Finance Act, 2012. There shall be levied a tax (hereinafter referred to as the service tax) at the rate of fourteen percent. on the value of all services, other than those services specified in the negative list, provided or agreed to be provided in the taxable territory by one person to another and collected in such manner as may be prescribed. SECTION 66E. Declared services. The following shall constitute declared services, namely – (a) …………. (e) agreeing to the obligation to refrain from an act, or to tolerate an act or a situation, or to do an act;” 7. The case of the Revenue is that the appellant had tolerated its employees resigning without the requisite notice period in return for a consideration and therefore, the amounts received or recovered from such of its employees is exigible to Service Tax under Section 66E(e). The case of the appellant is that it did not render any service nor has it entered into any agreement to tolerate its employees leaving without notice It has only collected compensation for such an act of its employees. Therefore, the amounts received or recovered by it cannot be charged to service tax 8. We find that both Service’ as defined in Section 658(44) and ‘Declared Service’ as defined in Section 658 (22) require the activity to be for a ‘Consideration As per Section 66E (e) the following are declared services. (a) agreeing to the obligation to refrain from an act, or (b) agreeing to tolerate an act or a situation, or (c) agreeing to do an act. 9. Each of the above is a declared service and therefore, becomes exigible to service tax if it is done for a consideration. The dispute in this case appears to have arisen because the officers confused compensation for consideration. While a consideration is something received for performance under the contract, compensation is received if the other party reneges or fails to perform as per the contract Consideration is the object of the contract and compensation is not. The party which suffers because of the reneging or non-performance by the other can get compensated either in the form of unliquidated damages (where the court decides the quantum of damages) or liquidated damages (where the contract itself provides that damages of such and such amount will be paid in case of non-performance of the contract) While a contract for any service specifies both the service to be rendered and the consideration to be paid for such service, it also has other clauses which define the conditions of the contract which include details of how the parties must fulfil their parts of the contract. These conditions, often include a clause on ‘liquidated damages if a party fails to fulfil its obligations under the contract as laid down in the conditions Consideration is the result of successful performance of the contract while compensation is paid by the party frustrating the contract to the other Compensation is also paid, if the contract so provides, when one party performs under the contract but not within the conditions laid down, such as delays in performance. A few illustrations will make this point clearer. A doctor performs a surgery and gets paid a fee. Here the surgery is the service of the doctor and the fee is the consideration and the purpose of the contract (written or otherwise), is the surgery. If due to medical negligence of the doctor the patient loses his eye and the patient gets paid compensation, it is a payment for frustration of the implicit contract for the surgery which presumes that it will be performed carefully. The patient gets paid but it is not consideration, it cannot be said that the doctor and patient agreed that the patient would lose his sight and as a consideration for taking away the sight of the patient, doctor paid an amount. Similarly, a lawyer is expected to defend his client and pursue his best interests. If the lawyer is grossly negligent and the client suffers and gets paid compensation, it is for frustration of the contract which the client had with the lawyer It cannot be said that there is either a written or implicit agreement that the advocate will be negligent and in allowing the lawyer to be negligent and cause loss, a consideration has been paid to the client. If a bank enters into a loan agreement, the essence of the contract is that the borrower would borrow the amount on interest for an agreed period. If the borrower wants to pre-pay the loan, it frustrates the contract from the point of view of the bank and loan pre-payment charges (in the form of liquidated damages) are charged by the bank as per the loan agreement. These charges are not paid for rendering the service but as a penalty for the borrower reneging on his contract and not borrowing money for the entire period as originally agreed. When a telephone or electricity company renders service and issues a bill, the implicit agreement is that the customer will pay the bill within time. If the customer delays paying the bill, he will be required to compensate the company for the delay in the form of late fee. The late fee is not the purpose of the agreement but is a penalty for failure on the part of the customer to meet his end of the deal in paying the bill within time. 10. The argument of the Revenue is that liquidated damages (in this case, the penalty for resigning without notice period) is built into the contract itself. Therefore, it is agreed beforehand that if one of the p arties reneges or fails to perform, the other will tolerate the situation in return for the amount to be paid as decided in the contract. This, according to the Revenue is an agreement to tolerate a situation and hence constitutes a ‘Declared Service’ under Section 66E(e) and is exigible to service tax. 11. This, in our view, is not the correct reading of the contract Contract, is an agreement enforceable by law Section 2 of The Indian Contract Act, 1872 is reproduced below: “2. Interpretation-clause. -In this Act the following words and expressions are used in the following senses, unless a contrary intention appears from the context (a) When one person signifies to another his willingness to do or to abstain from doing anything. With a view to obtaining the assent of that other to such act or abstinence, he is said to make a proposal; (b) When the person to whom the proposal is made signifies his assent thereto, the proposal is said to be accepted. A proposal, when accepted, becomes a promise; (c) The person making the proposal is called the “promisor”, and the person accepting the proposal is called the “promise”; (d) When, at the desire of the promisor, the promisee or any other person has done or abstained from doing, or does or abstains from doing, or promises to do or to abstain from doing, something, such act or abstinence or promise is called a consideration for the promise; (e) Every promise and every set of promises, forming the consideration for each other, is an agreement; (f) Promises which form the consideration or part of the consideration for each other are called reciprocal promises. (g) An agreement not enforceable by law is said to be void, (h) An agreement enforceable by law is a contract; (i) An agreement which is enforceable by law at the option of one or more of the parties thereto, but not at the option of the other or others, is a voidable contract, (j) A contract which ceases to be enforceable by law becomes void when it ceases to be enforceable.” 12. The agreement is a set of promises which form consideration for each other. Evidently, the promises have to be for performance under the contract and not for frustrating it Consideration, correspondingly, is at the desire of the promise. It must be something which the promisee desires and not something which he does not want. Each party to a contract desires the other to perform his part of the deal and not that the other party does not perform so that it can get a compensation. For instance, the patient desires the doctor to perform surgery with due care and does not desire that the doctor should be negligent and cause harm so that he can get compensation. The fact that the quantum of penalty or compensation is not decided by a court of law but is pre- agreed and built into the contract for the service itself in the form of liquidated damages does not make it a consideration, it remains compensation. It is a fall-back option if one of the parties frustrates the contract either by reneging on its commitments or by failing to perform. 13. What falls within the ambit of Section 66E(e) are cases where the essence of the agreement, ie.. the purpose for which the agreement is entered into itself is tolerating a situation or refraining from an Act in return for a consideration. Such an agreement could be (a) an agreement agreeing to the obligation to refrain from an act, or (b) agreeing to tolerate an act or a situation, or (c) agreeing to do an act. 14. Evidently, if none of these are the purpose or the essence of the agreement or if there is no consideration for such an agreement, it does not fall within the ambit of Section 66E(e). If the agreement is for something else and if one of the parties fails to perform as per the agreement and pays to the other a compensation as pre-decided in the agreement, it does not fall under Section 66E(e). This view was taken by this Tribunal in several cases. In Mis. Repco Home Finance Ltd. (Service Tax Appeal No. 511 of 2011-LB decided by MISCELLANOUS ORDER NO. 40053/2020 dated 8.6.20201, the larger bench of this Tribunal held that no service tax can be charged on loan pre-payment charges. In South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. [2020-TIOL-1711-CESTAT- DEL), the amounts received by the appellant as penalty from other parties for non-observance or breach of terms of contract in the commercial contracts it entered into were held to be not chargeable to service tax under section 66E(e). In MNH Shakti Ltd. [2021-TIOL-732- CESTAT-KOL), Revenue’s demand of service tax under section 66E(e) on the compensation which the appellant received from the Government for cancellation of the coal blocks was set aside. In the case of Ruchi Soya Ltd. [2021-TIOL-402-CESTAT-DEL], the appellant entered into an agreement for maintenance of wind farms and paid the contractor. However, where the machine availability was not as per the norms, the contractor issued credit notes to the appellant as compensation. Revenue’s demand of service tax on this compensation amount under Section 66E(e) was set aside by this Tribunal. 15. The present case deals with contracts of employment. Employment contracts are entered into with the expectation that the employer will continue to keep him employed for the period as agreed and that the employee will perform his duties diligently. They are not entered into so that the employer can remove the employer from service or so that the employee can resign and leave the service However, often, for vanous reasons the employer may decide to terminate the services of the employee which puts the employee to inconvenience and he has to find another job. Conversely, the employee may decide to resign and leave the service which inconveniences the employer who will have to make alternative arrangements such as finding a substitute. A notice period on both sides is provided for so that the other party can make arrangements. If the employer decides to terminate the services without giving the required notice, the employment contract itself provides for a compensation to be paid. Similarly, if the employee resigns without notice, compensation is paid by the employee or recovered from his dues. Both the notice period and the compensation are incorporated in the employment contact itself but these are not the purpose of the contract. Consequently, any compensation paid is not a consideration for the contract. 16. Since the provision of section 66E(e) appears to have given ise to some confusion, the Central Board of Excise and Customs issued CBEC’s guidance notes dated 20.06.2012 para 2.9.3 clanfies as follows: “2.9. Provision of service by an employee to the employer is outside the ambit of service. 2.9.3 Would amounts received by an employee from the employer on premature termination of contract of employment be chargeable to service tax? No Such amounts paid by the employer to the employee for premature termination of a contract of employment are treatable as amounts paid in relation to services provided by the employee to the employer in the course of employment. Hence, amounts so paid would not be chargeable to service tax. However any amount paid for not joining a competing business would be liable to be taxed being paid for providing the service of forbearance to act.” 17. Referring to the above clarification by the CBEC, High Court of Madras has, in GE T&D India Ltd. [2019 (12) TMI-1566- Madras High Court] held that notice pay, in lieu of sudden termination, does not give rise to the rendition of service either by the employer or the employee and allowed the writ petitions. Thus the specific issue in this case is no longer res integra GE T&D India Ltd. was followed in Intas Pharmaceuticals [2021-TIOL-367-CESTAT-AHM], State Street Syntel Services Pvt. Ltd. [2021-TIOL- 152-CESTAT-MUM] Shri Ram Pistons and Rings Ltd. [2020 (42) GSTL 79 (Tri-All)) and HCL Learning Ltd. [2019- TIOL-3545-CESTAT-AII]. 18. Learned Departmental Representative submitted that the clarification by the CBEC was clear and it was held that the termination pay received by the employee is not exigible to tax because in such as case. It is the employee who is the service provider and the service provided by him in the course of employment is excluded from the definition of service. However, where the employer recovers any amount, the service provider will be the employer and his services are not excluded from the definition of service. Therefore, a distinction needs to be made on this count. However, on a specific query from the bench, he fairly submits that there are no case laws to support this argument nor is there any case law contrary to the judgment of the Madras High Court in the GE T&D. 19. In view of our finding that compensation for failure under a cannot is NOT consideration for service under the contract and also following the law laid down by Madras High Court in GE T&D that Notice pay in lieu of termination, however, does not give rise to the rendition of service either by the employer or the employee, the impugned order upholding confirmation of a demand of service tax on the notice pay received/recovered by the appellant from its employees for premature resignation cannot be sustained and needs to be set aside. 20. In view of the above, the appeal is allowed and the impugned order is set aside.” Since the facts of the matter in hand are similar to the one which has been decided in the above mentioned decision by this Tribunal, we follow the same and hold that impugned order-in-appeal is without any merit. We set aside the same. 5. Appeal is allowed. (Order pronounced in the open Court on 23.10.2024) Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Cestat judgments Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,461 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Liquidated Damages Service Tax Issue Remanded for Circular Examination: CESTAT Ahmedabad September 27, 2026 Notice Pay and Bond Recovery Not Taxable Declared Service: CESTAT Bangalore September 27, 2026 Employee Bond Recovery and Student Fee Forfeiture Not Declared Service: CESTAT Bangalore September 27, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Service Tax SCN Cannot Introduce New Service Classification During Adjudication: CESTAT Chennai September 26, 2026 Forest Entry Fees for Sovereign Functions Not Taxable as Tour Operator: Gujarat HC September 26, 2026 75% Service Tax Penalty Set Aside After Timely 25% Payment: CESTAT Bangalore September 25, 2026 Club Membership and Design Services Eligible for Cenvat Credit: CESTAT Mumbai September 25, 2026 FIRC Quarter-End Is Relevant Date for CENVAT Refund Limitation: CESTAT Mumbai September 24, 2026 Police Security Services Performing Statutory Duties Not Taxable: CESTAT Mumbai September 23, 2026