NSE/CML/2022/03January 06, 2022 To, All Listed Entities Dear Sir/ Madam, Subject: Launch of Digital Portal for filings done with the Exchange In order to enhance customer experience and operational excellence, NSE has embarked on a unique project which focuses on re-designing and re-imagining various user interfaces. Currently, listed entities are submitting various disclosures to the Exchange via NEAPS (NSE Electronic Application Processing System). With the launch of the new Digital Portal, listed entities shall make all the filings through the Digital Portal. However, the transition from NEAPS to the Digital Portal would be carried out in a phased manner. In the initial phase, announcements submitted to the Exchange and disclosures submitted under SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 would be covered. Circulars in this regard, detailing out the process of submission would be issued in due course. All listed entities will receive an email on or before January 08, 2021 from the Digital Portal email ID: noreply@digitalexchange.nse.co.in to migrate themselves on the NSE’s Digital Portal. Webinars shall be conducted to guide companies on the manner in which the Digital Portal shall be accessed. The steps to be followed for migrating user id on receipt of the email is enclosed as Annexure 1. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Avishkar Naik Head – Listing Annexure 1 Step-by-step guide on how to migrate your Company Super and Sub User on the NSE’s New Digital Portal: 1. Company Super and Sub User of all the Listed companies will receive a mail from the NSE Digital Platform emailID: noreply@digitalexchange.nse.co.in to migrate themselves on the NSE’s New Digital Exchange Platform 2. The Company Super and Sub User activation link has been sent on the email address registered on NEAPS portal Company Super User credentials 3. Click on the “here” button mentioned in the mail you will receive to get redirected to Digital Exchange Portal 4. Now you will be redirected to the Digital Exchange Platform, where you will have to fill in your Company Super/ Sub User ID and Password as per as per guidelines given on the screen NOTE : Please note that, this user id and password will be used to login on to the New Digital Exchange Platform. OTP to login will be sent to the mobile number mentioned in this screen 5. After filling out “User ID” and “Password”, click on Save changes 6. Now you will be automatically redirected to the Digital Exchange portal, where you will have to click on “Exchange” button 7. Enter your User ID and Password (which you choose in Step 4) 8. After validating your details, you will be sent an OTP on the registered mobile and email id mentioned in Step 4 9. After successfully entering OTP, you will be navigated to the Digital Exchange Platform Dashboard 10. The Super Users can create the sub-users for your organization as per the User manual available on the below screen: