BB/2026-27/25 dated 4th September 2026, cautions the general public, policyholders and other stakeholders against a website, “igmsirdai.online”, including its complaint-registration webpage, which appears to present itself as an IRDAI-related insurance grievance or complaint platform. IRDAI states that the website is not an official IRDAI website and that the matter is being examined, with appropriate action being initiated or taken in accordance with applicable law. The public is advised not to access the suspected website, register complaints there, or submit personal, policy, financial, banking, KYC, OTP or other sensitive information without verification. The notice also cautions against making payments or sharing banking credentials, passwords, OTPs or confidential information in response to communications received through such websites. For registering or tracking insurance grievances, the public is directed to use only the official Bima Bharosa portal. Those who have already submitted personal, policy or financial information through the suspected website are advised to take appropriate precautionary measures and, where necessary, report the matter to appropriate cybercrime or law-enforcement authorities. IRDAI further advises the public to verify the authenticity of IRDAI-related websites and warns that it will not be responsible for losses, disclosure of information or other consequences arising from interaction with unauthorised or fraudulent websites impersonating IRDAI. The notice is issued in the interest of the general public and for protection of policyholders. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India Public Notice No. IRDAI/PPGR/BB/2026-27/25 | Dated: 4th September 2026 Re: Caution Against Fraudulent/Unauthorised Website Impersonating IRDAI Bima Bharosa/IGMS. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has come to know of a website “igmsirdai.online”, including the following webpages, which appears to be presenting itself as an IRDAI-related insurance grievance/complaint registration platform: igmsirdai.online igmsirdai.online/register-complaint 2. It is hereby notified for the information of the general public, policyholders and other stakeholders: a. The said website is not an official IRDAI website. The matter is being examined by IRDAI and appropriate action is being initiated/taken in accordance with applicable law. b. To not access, register complaints or submit any personal, policy, financial, banking, KYC, OTP or other sensitive information on the above website or any other website claiming to represent IRDAI without verification. c. To not make any payment or share banking/financial credentials, passwords, OTPs or other confidential information in response to any communication received through such websites. d. For registering or tracking insurance grievances with IRDAI, use only the official Bima Bharosa portal available at: bimabharosa.irdai.gov.in. e) Exercise caution against websites, emails, messages, telephone calls or other communications that misuse the name, logo, identity or terminology of IRDAI or otherwise represent themselves as being associated with IRDAI without proper verification. 3. Members of the public who have already submitted personal, policy or financial information through the suspected website are advised to take appropriate precautionary measures and, where necessary, report the matter to the appropriate cybercrime/law-enforcement authorities. 4. The public is advised to verify the authenticity of any IRDAI-related website before sharing any information or registering a grievance. 5. IRDAI will not be responsible for any loss, disclosure of information or other consequences arising from interaction with unauthorised/fraudulent websites impersonating IRDAI. 6. Members of the public are requested to remain vigilant and help prevent the misuse of IRDAI’s identity and grievance redressal mechanism. 7. The Public Notice is being issued in the interest of the general public and for the protection of the interests of policyholders. Sd/- Raj Kumar Sharma Executive Director Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under insurance actinsurance sectorIRDAIRDA Notifications Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law CCI Rejects Interim Relief as DG Investigation Into Competition Claims Remains Pending September 7, 2026 DNA Evidence Establishes Paternity, Not Consent: Delhi HC Upholds Acquittal September 7, 2026 Karnataka HC Directs NCLT to Expeditiously Consider Dispute Over Sale of Byju’s K3 Assets September 6, 2026 Co-operative Bank Conversion Mid-Recovery: Forum, Composite Notice & Cost of Delay September 6, 2026 Sports Centre Building Tax Exemption Claim Requires Reconsideration: Kerala HC September 6, 2026 Calcutta HC Accepted ED Officer’s Unconditional Apology in Stay Order Contempt September 5, 2026