#AD A conversation on savings can never be complete without mentioning FD. Fixed deposits have acted as promising avenues for guaranteed returns. Whether it’s a wedding in the family, higher education plans, or big budget investments, fixed deposit options in India are the ones people turn to for their individual and family goals. That’s because they offer: Accessible stability Opportunity for portfolio diversification Periodic liquidity through interest payouts Few other financial instruments safeguard savers from market volatility as these do, while furnishing guaranteed yields. In this article, we look at the best fixed deposit options you can turn to in India for simple and easy structured savings. Table of Contents▸ How Does a Fixed Deposit Work? Documents Required for a Fixed Deposit Top Fixed Deposit Options in India in 2026 1. State Bank of India Fixed Deposit 2. Kotak Mahindra Bank Fixed Deposit 3. AU Small Finance Bank Fixed Deposit Why Choose a Fixed Deposit Over Other Deposits? Assured Profitability Flexible Investments Tax Returns How To Choose the Best Fixed Deposit in India? Conclusion Show all 12 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); How Does a Fixed Deposit Work? It is a reliable financial instrument for receiving assured returns; you invest a lump-sum amount with a bank or financial institution for a specified period of time. The tenure can be as short as 7 days or stretch as long as 10 years. Once the invested amount is deposited, it begins to earn interest at the locked-in interest rate. When the maturity date arrives, the bank credits the principal amount along with the interest into your account. Documents Required for a Fixed Deposit Unless you already have a KYC-verified bank account, some standard paperwork will be necessary before opening a new fixed deposit: Aadhaar card PAN card Driving license or passport Coloured passport-sized photograph Top Fixed Deposit Options in India in 2026 Take a look at the top FD schemes in India that stand out for their high slab rates, flexible tenure options, and straightforward account opening processes. 1. State Bank of India Fixed Deposit A term deposit option with a minimum deposit amount of ₹1000 for encouraging savings discipline. Offers choice-of-interest payout (monthly, yearly, half-yearly) for easy liquidity Fixed Deposit Interest Rates India for 2-3 years: 6.95% p.a. Fixed Deposit Interest Rates India for 5-10 years: 7.05% p.a. Enables transferability among branches for better management of personal finances 2. Kotak Mahindra Bank Fixed Deposit The most suitable option for boosting savings with minimal application hassle and high flexibility. Minimum deposit amount of ₹5000 Fixed Deposit Interest Rates: Starting at 2.75% p.a., goes up to 7.30% p.a. Hassle-free option to invest in fixed deposits online through net & mobile banking facilities An easy-to-use fixed deposit calculator enables maturity value calculation Low premature withdrawal penalty that eases financial burden 3. AU Small Finance Bank Fixed Deposit Ideal fixed deposit option for domestic investors, senior citizens, as well as NROs, NRIs, and NREs. Slab rates as high as 7.10% p.a. for deposits with a minimum tenure of 1 year Make depositors eligible for deposit insurance that insures cumulative investments up to ₹5 lakh A fixed penalty of 1% for premature withdrawal, sweep-ins, and partial closures applies Enables easy account opening through Video Banking or net banking Why Choose a Fixed Deposit Over Other Deposits? Fixed deposits are a staple on the financial planning list in Indian households. There are a few solid reasons that make them this popular: Assured Profitability Fixed deposits are your ticket out of financial uncertainty and instability. They require minimal knowledge, can be opened easily, and are not exposed to market fluctuations. Your initial deposit remains safe, and high slab rates make them highly profitable. Everything is pre-determined. That peace of mind is hard to find in most financial instruments. Flexible Investments Fixed deposits act like a piggy bank, with the added benefit of interest returns. You can choose how much you save, how long you save, and whether you want a payout periodically. The returns align with your financial goals, and withdrawals can be planned around grand milestones. Tax Returns Investors looking to save on taxes often turn to these. Certain fixed deposits, such as tax-saving fixed deposits, offer deductions under Section 123 of the Income Tax Act, 2025. This means that investing a lump-sum amount in an FD can lead to double savings. How To Choose the Best Fixed Deposit in India? The fixed deposit terms that may be suitable for you may not be suitable for a senior citizen or an NRI. Since financial goals differ, you can assess the suitability of an FD based on a few simple pointers: Saving Goals An emergency fund demands a different deposit amount and tenure from a senior citizen fixed deposit. Similarly, travel-related expenses can be covered through a short-term FD, while a down payment for your home will require a long-term one. Interest Returns Slab rates determine yield. High interest rates and additional benefits ensure higher returns or generous periodic payouts. Determine cash outflows and maturity value before sealing the deal. Early Withdrawal Penalty Premature withdrawal terms and conditions impact the final yield you get from your FD. Choose a financial institution that imposes low penalties, so you get the most out of your investment. Conclusion There’s no single best deposit option that applies universally to every Indian. Since needs differ, the best fixed deposit options in India are the ones that enable you to plan the upcoming 10 years with ease. Whether you need to plan child education, home renovation, or retirement, diverse tenures, slab rates, and penalty rates by Indian financial institutions offer up a buffet. Set a clear target for the FD and opt for small banks or reliable financial institutions that fit your bill. Unique terms prove more effective than a rushed decision. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Financial PlanningLong Term Investment Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance Why Traders Sometimes Enter a Trade Too Late September 25, 2026 CAGR Calculator vs Lumpsum Calculator – What Does Each One Tell You? September 24, 2026 PMLA Special Court Jurisdiction Revised for Four Himachal Pradesh Districts September 23, 2026 IFSCA Relaxes Qualified Jeweller Eligibility for Gold, Silver Imports Through IIBX September 23, 2026 SC Orders Nationwide Audit of Private Universities’ Finances and Admissions September 22, 2026 How AI Is Changing Market Analysis for Retail Traders September 21, 2026