Summary Section 7 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 determines whether a transaction constitutes a “supply”, the fundamental taxable event under GST. It broadly covers supplies of goods or services made for consideration in the course or furtherance of business, while import of services for consideration may constitute supply even without a business purpose. Schedule I brings specified transactions within GST even where consideration is absent, including certain transfers of business assets and supplies between related or distinct persons. Conversely, Section 7(2) read with Schedule III keeps specified activities outside the scope of supply, including employee services to an employer in the course of employment and functions performed by courts and tribunals. Where transactions combine multiple elements, Sections 2(30), 2(74) and 8 distinguish composite supplies from mixed supplies and prescribe their tax treatment. Judicial decisions such as Bai Mamubai Trust v Suchitra and Union of India v Mohit Minerals Pvt Ltd demonstrate the importance of these provisions in determining the boundaries of GST and preventing artificial division of commercial transactions. Practical difficulties continue to arise regarding consideration, related-party transactions, corporate guarantees, cross-border services and bundled supplies. CBIC circulars and judicial interpretation therefore remain significant in applying the statutory concept of supply to complex commercial arrangements. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Section 7: The Statutory Core Schedule I: Supply Without Consideration Schedule III: What Falls Outside Supply Composite and Mixed Supply Judicial Interpretation Practical Difficulties Critical Analysis Conclusion Key Sources Show all 10 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Every GST problem I have worked through in class eventually comes back to one question: is there a supply at all? Rate schedules, exemptions, input tax credit none of it matters if the transaction does not first qualify as a supply. Under the old indirect tax regime, India taxed different events separately manufacture attracted excise, sale attracted VAT, and rendering a service attracted service tax. GST replaced this patchwork with a single taxable event, and Section 7 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act 2017 (CGST Act) is where that event is defined. Add to this GST’s destination-based character tax accrues where goods or services are consumed, not where they originate and it becomes clear why “supply” is the doorway through which every transaction must pass before the rest of the Act applies. Section 7: The Statutory Core Section 7(1)(a) treats as supply “all forms of supply of goods or services or both such as sale, transfer, barter, exchange, licence, rental, lease or disposal” made for consideration in the course or furtherance of business. This provision applies from 1 July 2017, with clause (aa) later inserted by the Finance Act 2021 to deem supplies between an unincorporated association and its members as taking place between two separate persons. Four elements recur across the sub-clauses there must be goods or services, a listed mode of transfer such as sale or lease consideration, generally and a business connection. Section 7(1)(b) treats import of services for consideration as supply even where no business purpose exists, which reflects GST’s destination-based logic consumption in India, not the supplier’s commercial motive, triggers the levy. Schedule I: Supply Without Consideration Consideration is usually necessary, but Section 7(1)(c) pulls Schedule I transactions into the net even without it. Permanent transfer of business assets on which credit was claimed, and supplies between related or distinct persons in the course of business, are the recurring examples covered here. This matters most for corporate groups and cross-border affiliates, where services often move between entities without any invoice changing hands. CBIC has repeatedly had to clarify how far this deeming fiction stretches including on personal and corporate guarantees given without a fee, and on services received from a foreign related entity free of charge. Schedule III: What Falls Outside Supply Schedule III lists activities Section 7(2)(a) removes from GST altogether services by an employee to an employer in the course of employment, court and tribunal functions, and funeral or burial services, among others. The logic is not that these transactions lack value it is that they fall outside the commercial relationship GST is meant to tax. Employment, sovereign functions and a handful of similarly placed activities sit structurally outside the supply chain, so no amount of value exchanged brings them within Section 7. Composite and Mixed Supply Where a transaction bundles more than one element, Sections 2(30), 2(74) and 8 decide how it is taxed. A composite supply, say goods sold with mandatory freight and insurance is taxed at the rate of its principal supply. A mixed supply, like a gift hamper of chocolates and a diary sold as one package for a single price, is taxed at whichever rate is highest among its components. The distinction is not academic misclassifying a composite supply as mixed, or vice versa, changes the applicable rate and can trigger a demand. Judicial Interpretation Two decisions illustrate how courts have shaped this area. In Bai Mumbai Trust v Suchitra, the Bombay High Court examined whether fees paid to a court receiver amounted to supply. It held that receiver’s fees fell outside GST under Schedule III because the office of the Court Receiver functions as an arm of the High Court itself, so the “service” was really a judicial function rather than a commercial one. The judgment is useful because it treats Schedule III not as a technical carve-out but as an expression of what GST was never meant to reach. Union of India v Mohit Minerals Pvt Ltd dealt with a different problem whether Indian importers could be separately taxed on ocean freight under reverse charge when goods were imported on a CIF basis. The Supreme Court held that no IGST was payable on such freight since the transaction was a composite supply of goods under Section 8 read with Section 2(30), and splitting out the freight component for separate taxation violated that scheme. The case shows Section 8 doing real work preventing the artificial slicing of a single commercial transaction into multiple taxable events. Practical Difficulties Three recurring problems come up in practice. First, determining whether “consideration” exists at all free samples, discounts and employee perquisites all sit in grey zones. Second, related-party and distinct-person transactions under Schedule I have generated repeated litigation and clarification, including CBIC’s 2023 and 2024 circulars on corporate guarantees and cross-border related-party services, precisely because field officers kept reading the deeming fiction more broadly than intended. Third, classification disputes between composite and mixed supply persist because businesses genuinely bundle goods and services in ways the Act’s binary framework does not always capture cleanly. Critical Analysis Section 7 gives a workable definition, but not a self-executing one. The core test — goods or services, consideration, business is clear on paper. What remains unsettled is how far the deeming fictions in Schedule I extend, and how Schedule III’s exclusions apply to arrangements Parliament did not specifically contemplate, such as intra-group cost allocations. This is less a defect than an inevitable feature of a provision trying to cover an enormously varied commercial landscape through a handful of clauses; the repeated CBIC circulars are best read as filling those gaps rather than correcting drafting errors. Conclusion Section 7 answers the threshold question GST asks of every transaction: is there a supply? Its structure, the general definition, Schedule I’s exceptions to consideration, Schedule III’s exclusions, and Sections 8, 2(30) and 2(74) on composite and mixed supply gives GST law a coherent taxable event, even where its outer edges continue to be worked out through circulars and litigation. That is precisely why “supply” remains the starting point of every GST analysis, rather than a settled footnote to it. Key Sources Central Goods and Services Tax Act 2017 (India), s 7 and Schedules I, II, III Central Goods and Services Tax Act 2017 (India), ss 2(30), 2(74), 8 Bai Mamubai Trust v Suchitra, Court Receiver’s Report No 213 of 2017 in Commercial Suit (L) No 236 of 2017 (Bombay HC, 13 September 2019) Union of India v Mohit Minerals Pvt Ltd, Civil Appeal No 1390 of 2022 (SC, 19 May 2022) CBIC, Circular No 199/11/2023-GST (17 July 2023) (related domestic parties/distinct persons) CBIC, Circular No 204/16/2023-GST (27 October 2023) (personal and corporate guarantees) CBIC, Circular No 210/4/2024-GST (26 June 2024) (import of services from related foreign entity) Central Goods and Services Tax Rules 2017 (India), r 28 (valuation between related/distinct persons) GST Council, Recommendations of the 52nd and 53rd GST Council Meetings (2023–2024), gstcouncil.gov.in Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, CBIC GST Circulars Portal, cbic-gst.gov.in Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: SUBODH Kumar Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Location: RANCHI, Jharkhand Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax 10% GST Penalty Pre-Deposit Not Required When Tax Also Demanded: Madras HC September 24, 2026 Manual GSTR-3B Filing Permitted After Best Judgment Assessment: AP HC September 24, 2026 Kerala HC Quashes ITC Denial for Returns Filed Before Section 16(5) Cutoff September 24, 2026 Kerala HC Orders Reconsideration of ITC Denied for Late GST Returns September 24, 2026 Delhi HC Orders Nationwide Biometric Aadhaar Authentication Before GST Registration September 24, 2026 Departmental Appeal Plan Cannot Defeat GST Refund: Telangana HC September 24, 2026