Summary: The Reverse Charge Mechanism (RCM) under GST shifts the statutory responsibility for payment of tax from the supplier to the recipient in specified transactions. The principal legal framework is contained in Sections 9(3) and 9(4) of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 and Sections 5(3) and 5(4) of the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, read with notifications issued by the Government. RCM is selective and notification-driven rather than a general rule applicable to every transaction involving an unregistered supplier or a particular category of goods or services. Notification No. 4/2017-Central Tax (Rate) specifies goods on which tax is payable under reverse charge, including specified supplies of cashew nuts, bidi wrapper leaves, tobacco leaves and silk yarn, while Notification No. 43/2017-Central Tax (Rate) subsequently brought specified supplies of raw cotton within the framework. Notification No. 13/2017-Central Tax (Rate) covers specified services such as legal services, GTA services, arbitral tribunal services and sponsorship services, subject to the supplier, recipient and other conditions specified in the notification. Taxpayers must therefore examine the nature of the supply, identity and status of the supplier and recipient, applicable notification and subsequent amendments before determining RCM liability. GST paid under reverse charge may generally qualify as Input Tax Credit where the recipient satisfies the applicable statutory conditions. Proper identification, payment, documentation and reporting of RCM transactions are consequently important for avoiding interest, penalties and incorrect ITC claims. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Understanding Reverse Charge Mechanism under GST Legal Framework Governing Reverse Charge under GST Goods Covered under Reverse Charge Notifications: When Does the Recipient Pay? Services under Reverse Charge: Where the Tax Liability Shifts RCM, Input Tax Credit and Compliance Requirements Conclusion References Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction The goal of India’s introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) was to combine a number of central and state-level indirect taxes into a single, comprehensive indirect tax system. The seller of products or services is often in charge of collecting and paying the tax to the government, which is one of the core tenets of GST. Nevertheless, the Goods and Services Tax framework also acknowledges circumstances in which imposing the tax obligation on the supplier might not be the best way to collect taxes. The Reverse Charge Mechanism (RCM) becomes important in this situation. The standard obligation to pay GST is transferred from the provider to the recipient of the supply under the Reverse Charge Mechanism. To put it another way, the recipient is now in charge of paying the relevant tax liability, subject to the legal requirements, rather than the supplier adding GST to the invoice and depositing it with the government. As a result, RCM marks a significant change from the standard or “ahead charge” mechanism of GST. Examining the different notifications that the government has published under the GST system makes the notion more crucial. These notifications specify which specific items and services are subject to the reverse charge mechanism and outline the conditions under which the recipient must pay taxes. Therefore, it takes more than just knowing the definition of RCM to comprehend it. The statutory provisions, pertinent notifications, the nature of the supply, the identity and position of the supplier and recipient, and the conditions associated with the specific transaction must all be examined. RCM’s justification is mostly related to effective revenue collection, tax management, and compliance. Some industries deal with transactions where it could be challenging to keep track of every supplier or where the recipient is better positioned to adhere to GST regulations. The GST structure aims to increase tax collection and lessen the likelihood of tax leakage by shifting the tax burden to the recipient in certain circumstances. Businesses now have more compliance obligations as a result of the mechanism, especially when it comes to recognizing transactions covered by RCM, figuring out the applicable rate, paying the tax on time, and accurately accounting for the debt. Understanding Reverse Charge Mechanism under GST Generally speaking, the supplier of goods or services is in charge of collecting and paying GST to the government under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime. The Forward Charge Mechanism (FCM) is the term used to describe this. The Reverse Charge Mechanism (RCM), which transfers the burden of paying taxes from the provider to the recipient, is an exception to this general rule provided under GST law.To put it simply, under forward charge, the provider collects GST from the recipient and then deposits it with the government. The recipient is legally obligated to pay the relevant GST to the government directly under reverse charge. Therefore, RCM mainly modifies the statutory obligation to settle the tax debt. RCM does not apply to all transactions. It only functions in areas where the GST law expressly permits it, usually through the Central Goods and Services Tax Act of 2017’s regulations and government announcements. The nature of the goods or services, the position of the provider and recipient, and the requirements outlined in the pertinent notification are some of the variables that may affect the application. The system fulfils crucial functions related to tax administration. In some transactions, the tax authorities may find it simpler to identify and control the beneficiary than the supplier. Therefore, transferring the payment obligation to these receivers can help with tax collection and lessen the chance of tax leakage. Crucially, RCM shouldn’t always be viewed as an extra or ongoing expense. The recipient may often claim the Input Tax Credit (ITC) of qualifying GST paid by reverse charge if the legislative requirements are met. Legal Framework Governing Reverse Charge under GST Section 9 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act) serves as the main legislative basis for the Reverse Charge Mechanism. While Section 9(1) establishes the general central tax levy on intra-State supplies, Section 9(3) establishes a specific exception by giving the Government the authority to designate specific categories of goods or services for which the recipient will be responsible for paying GST rather than the supplier, based on the GST Council’s recommendations. The recipient is regarded as the one responsible for paying taxes once a supply is covered by such a notification. Supplies obtained from unregistered individuals are covered by a different clause, Section 9(4). However, its present operation is not a blanket rule covering every purchase from an unregistered supplier. On the GST Council’s recommendations, the government may announce certain groups of registered individuals and particular types of products or services that are subject to reverse charge. As a result, the categories and requirements set forth by the government determine whether Section 9(4) is applicable. Sections 5(3) and 5(4) of the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (IGST Act) provide a comparable structure for interstate supplies. As a result, RCM functions through both statutory provisions and the notices that are issued in accordance with them. The notification-based nature of RCM is a key component of this system. Reverse charge is not always applicable just because a transaction involves an unregistered provider, a specific occupation, or a specific type of service. Before figuring up the applicable tax liability, the taxpayer must review the pertinent provision, notification, nature of supply, and prescribed circumstances. Therefore, rather than depending only on a generic list of reverse-charge transactions, understanding RCM necessitates reading the CGST/IGST Acts along with the pertinent notifications and subsequent revisions. The particular products and services covered in the ensuing sections are identified using this notification-driven methodology. Goods Covered under Reverse Charge Notifications: When Does the Recipient Pay? Certain supplies are included in the notified products when the recipient is qualified to fulfill the tax obligation due to the supplier’s characteristics or the way the goods are introduced into the market. Cashew nuts without shells or peels, tobacco leaves, silk yarn, lottery, and bidi wrapper leaves (tendu) are significant examples. For instance, if an agriculturist supplies a registered individual with certain items like cashew nuts, bidi wrapper leaves, or tobacco leaves, the registered recipient is responsible for paying the relevant GST under RCM. In a similar vein, silk yarn provided to a registered individual by an individual who produces silk yarn from raw silk or silk-worm cocoons is covered by the notification. Afterward, Notification No. 43/2017-Central Tax (Rate) issued an amendment that broadened the framework to cover raw cotton delivered by an agriculturist to a registered person. As a result, the obligation under RCM is contingent not only on the kind of commodities but also on the suppliers and recipients. This illustrates the need for taxpayers to review the entire notification and its terms before determining that a specific transaction is subject to reverse charge. Services under Reverse Charge: Where the Tax Liability Shifts Legal services provided to a business entity by an individual advocate, senior advocate, or firm of advocates is one of the most notable categories. In these situations, the business entity receiving the legal service is accountable for paying GST under RCM, subject to the terms of the announcement. CBIC has made it clear that the reverse charge system applies to legal services—including representative services—that advocates offer to corporate entities. Services provided by the Goods Transport Agency (GTA) are another significant area. The recipient of the GTA service is responsible for discharging GST under RCM if the requirements are met. Depending on the specifics of the transaction, the recipient could be either the consignor or the consignee. Services provided by an arbitral tribunal to a business entity, sponsorship services given to designated recipients, and certain services offered to business entities by the Central Government, State Government, Union Territory, or local government are additional notified services. Instead of treating every government or professional service as automatically subject to RCM, it is important to carefully review each entry due to the notification’s unique exclusions and requirements. Therefore, in cases where the notice deems such an arrangement appropriate, service-based RCM illustrates how GST law selectively transfers the statutory tax-payment burden to the recipient. RCM, Input Tax Credit and Compliance Requirements Determining who is responsible for paying GST is only one aspect of using the Reverse Charge Mechanism. A number of procedural and tax-credit conditions must also be met bythe beneficiary. Reverse charge taxes fall within the GST framework’s definition of “input tax.” As a result, GST paid via RCM can typically be claimed as Input Tax Credit (ITC) in cases where the recipient is otherwise qualified, subject to the limitations and criteria outlined in the CGST Act. Using the Reverse Charge Mechanism involves more than just figuring out who is in charge of paying GST. The beneficiary must additionally fulfilll a number of procedural and tax-credit requirements. The GST framework defines reverse charge taxes as “input tax.” Therefore, if the recipient is otherwise eligible, GST paid through RCM can normally be claimed as Input Tax Credit (ITC), subject to the restrictions and requirements specified in the CGST Act. In order to comply, taxpayers must accurately identify RCM transactions, ascertain the applicable rate and value of supply, and include the responsibility in the relevant GST return. Because it establishes when the recipient is required to pay taxes, the time of supply is very crucial. Subject to certain statutory limitations, the applicable regulations for services under RCM typically take into account the date of payment or the specified period from the supplier’s invoice, whichever is earlier. Invoices and other required documentation must accurately reflect when tax is due under reverse charge, and taxpayers must also keep the necessary records. In order to prevent interest, fines, and false ITC claims, it is crucial to properly identify and document RCM transactions. Conclusion The standard GST premise, which states that the supplier is in charge of tax collection and payment, is significantly altered by the Reverse Charge Mechanism. The GST framework aims to improve tax collection efficiency and lower the risk of tax leakage by shifting this statutory responsibility to the recipient in specifically notified transactions. The legal basis for this process is provided by the CGST Act’s Sections 9(3) and 9(4), read in conjunction with the pertinent notices. RCM’s application is notification-based and selective, which makes it significant. When the requirements are met, some products—such as certain agricultural and raw material supplies—as well as a variety of services—such as legal, GTA, sponsorship, and other notified services—may be subject to reverse charge. As a result, assessing RCM obligation necessitates closely examining the type of supply, the provider and recipient’s identities, and the relevant notification. Crucially, RCM shouldn’t just be seen as an extra tax burden on companies. Subject to the legal conditions, GST paid under reverse charge may later be eligible for an Input Tax Credit. Therefore, the main shift is not necessarily who ultimately suffers the economic cost of GST, but rather who is legally liable for depositing it with the government. Importantly, RCM shouldn’t only be viewed as an additional tax burden on businesses. GST paid via reverse charge may subsequently qualify for an input tax credit, subject to regulatory requirements. Therefore, the primary change is not necessarily who bears the financial burden of GST in the end, but rather who is legally responsible for depositing it with the government References Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 – Sections 9(3) & 9(4). Notification No. 4/2017-Central Tax (Rate) – RCM on specified goods. Notification No. 13/2017-Central Tax (Rate) – RCM on specified services. Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 – Sections 5(3) & 5(4). CBIC – Sectoral FAQs on GST. GST Council – Official Notifications and Recommendations **** Author: Riya Singh, 5th year BBA LLB, Lovely Professional University Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTReverse Charge Mechanism Author Info Name: Riya Singh Qualification: Student - Others Location: Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Riya Singh Digital Payments And Income Tax Scrutiny: What Every Indian Should Know February 17, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax One Master TRN for Multiple States/UTs: Applicability, Procedure, GSTIN & Compliance October 4, 2026 Mixed Supply Under GST: Highest Tax Rate Rule, Examples & DOMS Industries Ruling October 4, 2026 GST Council: Structure, Voting, Recommendations & Role in Fiscal Federalism October 3, 2026 GST Search Authorisation Must Clearly Specify Power Exercised Under Section 67: Madras HC October 3, 2026 GST Section 23: Persons Not Liable for Registration, Exemptions & Exceptions October 3, 2026 GST Hearing Notices Should Also Be Sent by SMS or Email: Madhya Pradesh HC October 3, 2026