Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited has announced the establishment of the Sun Professorship in Dermatology at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York. This initiative is supported by a $2.5 million endowment from Sun Pharma and aims to fund academic leadership in dermatology indefinitely. Dr. Mark G. Lebwohl, a renowned figure in psoriasis research and treatment, has been appointed as the inaugural professor. The installation ceremony took place at Hatch Auditorium at The Mount Sinai Hospital. The endowed professorship, based within the Kimberly and Eric J. Waldman Department of Dermatology at Mount Sinai, is set to enhance research, education, and mentorship in the field of dermatology. Sun Pharma, recognised as the second-largest pharmaceutical dermatology company in the United States by prescription volume, is committed to advancing patient care through scientific innovation and partnerships. Ahmad Naim, M.D., Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer for North America, stated that the professorship reflects Sun Pharma’s long-term commitment to fostering academic leadership and advancing dermatologic care. Dr. Lebwohl, who serves as Dean for Clinical Therapeutics at the Icahn School of Medicine and Chairman Emeritus of the Kimberly and Eric J. Waldman Department of Dermatology, is internationally acclaimed for his contributions to understanding inflammatory skin diseases. His work has significantly influenced standards of care and patient outcomes globally. Emma Guttman, M.D., Ph.D., System Chair of the Waldman Department of Dermatology at Mount Sinai, highlighted the shared commitment between Mount Sinai and Sun Pharma to advancing care for patients with serious skin diseases. The establishment of the Sun Professorship is a testament to Sun Pharma’s dedication to supporting the next generation of dermatologists and sustaining momentum in dermatologic research and care. As a leading global pharmaceutical company, Sun Pharma continues to drive innovation in dermatology, ophthalmology, and oncodermatology, contributing to improved patient outcomes worldwide. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under NSE Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Godrej Consumer Products Opens New Manufacturing Facility in Indonesia October 6, 2026 Mphasis extends collaboration with Social Security Scotland in £35.4 million deal October 6, 2026 Lupin unveils world’s first fixed-dose triple combination drug for COPD in India October 6, 2026 Glenmark Therapeutics launches new pump packs for Adapalene Gel USP, 0.1% in the USA October 6, 2026 IREDA signs performance MoU with MNRE for fiscal year 2026-27 October 5, 2026 Zydus and MSN launch first generic of Adempas® in the US market October 5, 2026