Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The PIB Backgrounder outlines the expansion of Prasar Bharati’s public broadcasting ecosystem through WAVES OTT and MyWAVES, connecting traditional broadcasting with digital access and public participation. WAVES OTT, launched on 20 November 2024, integrates live television, radio, on-demand programmes, archives, education, devotional content and digital publications on a multilingual platform. It has 1.2 crore registered users, over 1.5 crore downloads and more than 24,000 titles comprising 15,000 hours of content, while reaching audiences in more than 130 countries. MyWAVES, launched on 23 March 2026, enables citizens to create, upload and share original short, vertical and episodic content. The Gems of India Challenge further supports district-level storytelling and grassroots creators. WAVES OTT has also introduced a Pay-Per-View Content Sourcing Policy, ONDC integration and railway-related digital distribution initiatives. These platforms operate within the wider WAVES ecosystem, which seeks to strengthen India’s creative economy by connecting creators, businesses, investors, policymakers and technology leaders. The inaugural WAVES Summit in 2025 brought participation from more than 100 countries and generated ₹1,328 crore in business transactions through WAVES Bazaar. Together, WAVES OTT, MyWAVES and the broader WAVES ecosystem seek to preserve broadcasting archives, widen multilingual digital access, encourage citizen participation and provide Indian creators with greater national and global visibility. PIB Backgrounder Waves OTT and MyWAVES From Public Broadcasting to Public Participation Posted On: 23 SEP 2026 12:02PM by PIB Delhi WAVES reflects Prasar Bharati’s shift from conventional broadcasting to an integrated digital public-service ecosystem. WAVES OTT brings live television, radio, on-demand programmes, archives, education, devotional content and publications onto one digital platform. With 1.2 crore registered users, over 1.5 crore downloads and 24,000-plus titles, it is widening access across devices and languages. MyWAVES gives creators an institutional platform for submission, discovery and showcasing, while Gems of India promotes district-level stories and talent. New content-sourcing and distribution mechanisms further expand participation. Together with the WAVES Summit ecosystem, these initiatives connect India’s broadcasting heritage and emerging creators with wider audiences and global markets. Public Broadcasting for a Digital Generation For decades, Doordarshan and Akashvani connected millions through stories, news, culture and music. Today, audiences increasingly access content through smartphones, smart televisions and digital platforms. Public broadcasting has therefore evolved across changing formats, languages and viewing habits, to adopt the digital, over-the-top or OTT platform mode. Under this model, video, audio, and messaging content is directly streamed to viewers over the internet without the need for cables, satellites, and service providers. WAVES OTT, launched by Prasar Bharati on 20th November 2024, is a response to this transformation. It brings archival treasures from TV and radio, contemporary programmes and live broadcasting onto one multilingual digital platform. MyWAVES takes this transition further by enabling citizens to create and share their original content. This transformation is part of a broader national effort to strengthen India’s creative economy and expand opportunities across the media and entertainment sector. The push and visibility for this comes from the WAVES Summit, envisaged as a platform to bring together creators, industry leaders, policymakers and investors from across the world, fostering partnerships, business opportunities and international dialogue. The first edition of WAVES Summit was held in 2025. The summit has contributed to supporting creators and start-ups, facilitating investment, and strengthening global collaboration across the media and entertainment ecosystem through its various platforms. WAVES OTT: Making Public Broadcasting Digital From Broadcast Archives to Digital Access WAVES OTT was launched at the 55th International Film Festival of India on 20th November 2024 in Goa. It was unveiled as Prasar Bharati’s public-service OTT platform. The launch brought India’s broadcasting legacy into the modern digital space. Unlike commercial OTT platforms, WAVES OTT goes beyond entertainment. It brings together reliable information, education, culture, news, and selected entertainment. It takes public broadcasting beyond fixed schedules and traditional television sets. Audiences can access national and regional content according to their convenience. It also brings Prasar Bharati’s extensive archives to younger and wider audiences. Its easy access helps reach people beyond major cities and paid streaming services. Partnerships, subtitles and improved search information make regional content easier to discover. Its launch supports three larger goals: wider digital access, cultural preservation and linguistic diversity. It shows how a national institution can modernise while retaining its public-service purpose. WAVES OTT is therefore more than another streaming platform. It represents a wider reform in how Prasar Bharati distributes content, reaches audiences and works with creators, producers and content partners. One Platform, Multiple Experiences WAVES OTT brings television, radio, streaming, learning and digital publications onto one platform. Its growing library now includes over 24,000 titles and 15,000 hours of content. Watch on demand: Films, television shows, web series, documentaries and archival programmes. Tune in live: Over 140 television channels and 220 radio services. Follow major events: National occasions, sports, cultural programmes and devotional streams. Learn and prepare: PM eVidya channels and educational programmes support students and learners. Read and explore: E-books, photo collections and magazines such as Yojana and Kurukshetra. Play and shop: Games and ONDC-integrated shopping extend WAVES beyond conventional streaming. The platform combines entertainment with education, culture, heritage and useful public information. Thousands of hours from Prasar Bharati’s archives further connect new audiences with India’s broadcasting history. Reach Across Languages and Screens WAVES OTT currently has 1.2 crore registered users and over 1.5 crore downloads, reflecting the growing adoption of Prasar Bharati’s digital services. It now reaches audiences across more than 130 countries. Its interface supports over 10 languages. Its content is available in more than 26 languages. It is accessible through mobile applications, websites, and connected televisions. It carries all 35 Doordarshan satellite channels alongside other broadcasters. Its radio services draw upon Akashvani’s national and regional networks. Regional content and subtitles help reach audiences across languages and locations. WAVES OTT caters to audiences across India, particularly youth and digital-first users, regional and linguistic communities, and those seeking cultural, spiritual, and archival content. It also extends access to Indian content, culture, and public broadcasting services to the Indian diaspora and audiences worldwide. This expanding digital reach strengthens WAVES OTT as an important component of India’s evolving public broadcasting ecosystem while providing a platform that showcases the country’s cultural heritage, knowledge traditions, regional diversity, and creative expression. Opening the Platform to More Content WAVES OTT is also changing how content enters public broadcasting. The Pay-Per-View Content Sourcing Policy provides a transparent and scalable mechanism for producers and rights holders to offer quality content for the platform. WAVES has also introduced ONDC integration and railway-related digital distribution initiatives. These measures broaden distribution, encourage content partnerships, and create additional routes for Indian and regional content to reach audiences. MyWAVES: Turning Viewers into Creators MyWAVES was launched on 23rd March 2026 within WAVES OTT. It expands the platform from content viewing to active public participation. Citizens can create, upload, and share original content through a structured national platform.MyWAVES supports short videos, vertical videos, and episodic content. Its multilingual interface can help creators tell stories in Indian languages. It also supports participation in national programmes, including the Create in India Challenge. The platform is especially relevant for emerging creators outside established media networks. It can bring regional stories, local talent and community experiences to wider audiences. In doing so, MyWAVES strengthens both citizen participation and India’s growing creator economy. MyWAVES turns citizens from audiences into participants in India’s digital storytelling journey. Gems of India: MyWAVES in Action The Gems of India Challenge demonstrates how MyWAVES can support creators nationwide. Its pilot phase was launched on 21st July 2026 across six pilot States and Union Territories. Creators could submit original videos of one to three minutes through the MyWAVES section of WAVES OTT. Submissions for the pilot phase were accepted from 1st-31st August 2026. The challenge invites citizens to tell stories about their districts. Subjects include: Culture, heritage and historical places. Tourism, nature and lesser-known destinations. Folk traditions, festivals and performing arts. Handicrafts, handlooms and regional cuisine. Local personalities, innovations and achievements. The initiative involves Prasar Bharati, My Bharat and State and district administrations. Cultural and educational institutions support creator participation and content development. Furthermore, YouTube and Meta are also supporting outreach through their creator communities. The programme is expected to expand across all States and Union Territories. Its larger goal is to build a nationwide network of grassroots digital creators. It can also create a digital collection of India’s diverse local identities. Connecting Content, Creators and the Creative Economy India’s digital media transition is not only about moving content online. It is also about widening access, encouraging participation, and creating opportunities for talent. Each initiative addresses a different part of India’s creative journey. WAVES OTT preserves broadcasting archives and opens them to new audiences. Its multilingual content makes information, education, and entertainment available across regions and devices. MyWAVES builds upon this access by giving citizens a voice. It allows regional creators to document local cultures, traditions, places and achievements. Stories once limited to local communities can now receive national visibility. The Wider WAVES Ecosystem The World Audio Visual and Entertainment Summit (WAVES) is India’s global platform for media and entertainment. Its inaugural edition, held in Mumbai from 1–4 May 2025, brought together creators, businesses, investors, policymakers and technology leaders. It covered broadcasting and infotainment, AVGC-XR, digital media and films. WAVES 2025 at a Glance 100+ countries | 10,000+ delegates | 1,000 creators | 300+ companies | 350+ start-ups | Over one lakh participants Key Platforms The Global Media Dialogue advanced international cooperation, while CreatoSphere and the Create in India Challenges identified and showcased creative talent. WAVES Bazaar connected projects with buyers and investors, and WaveX supported media-tech start-ups through mentorship, incubation and investment opportunities. The Bharat Pavilion and knowledge sessions presented India’s storytelling traditions and emerging capabilities. Key Outcomes The WAVES Declaration was adopted by 77 countries. Create in India Challenges attracted nearly one lakh registrations from over 60 countries, with 750+ finalists and 150+ awardees. WAVES Bazaar generated ₹1,328 crore in business transactions through 3,000+ meetings. The Viewing Room featured 100 films from eight countries, while 30+ start-ups pitched through WaveX. WAVES continues beyond the Summit through its creator, business and start-up platforms. These initiatives connect talent with markets, investment and global opportunities throughout the year. The WAVES Summit brought these efforts into a global creative-industry ecosystem, connecting creators with businesses, investors, policymakers, and technology leaders. Through its marketplaces, creator challenges, and start-up platforms, it provides avenues for talent to access professional networks, audiences, and global opportunities. The strength of these initiatives lies in their interconnectedness. Archives preserve India’s cultural memory, regional platforms amplify diverse stories, and new talent is provided opportunities to create and innovate. Together, they connect India’s rich cultural inheritance with its evolving creative future, making public broadcasting more accessible and content creation more inclusive. By preserving existing narratives while enabling new voices, these initiatives are contributing to India’s expanding presence in the global media and entertainment landscape. They are helping shape a creative economy rooted in local cultural identities, connected through national platforms, and increasingly visible on the global stage. References Ministry of Information and Broadcasting https://prasarbharati.gov.in/waves/ https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2243949&reg=3&lang=1 https://www.pib.gov.in/waves/2025/index.aspx?reg=48&lang=2 https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2154230&reg=48&lang=2 https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2268091&reg=48&lang=2 https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2286946&reg=48&lang=2 https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2126844&utm&reg=48&lang=2 https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleaseIframePage.aspx?PRID=2125495&utm&reg=48&lang=2 https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2125725&reg=48&lang=2 https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2209982&reg=3&lang=1 PIB Backgrounders https://www.pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=2229463&reg=48&lang=2 https://www.pib.gov.in/FeaturesDeatils.aspx?NoteId=154360&ModuleId=2&reg=48&lang=2 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Government Policy Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Multiple Cheques Create Separate Causes of Action under Section 138 of NI Act: SC September 23, 2026 PIL Cannot Become Proxy Tender Dispute Between Rival Bidders: SC September 23, 2026 Advocate Gets 15-Day Jail for Baseless “Match-Fixing” Allegation: Karnataka HC September 23, 2026 Cross-FIR Not Automatic Merely Because Complaint Is Counter-Version: Delhi HC September 23, 2026 Expired Railway Way Leave Cannot Be Revived Through Resolution Plan: Calcutta HC September 23, 2026 Supreme Court Upholds Service Tax Exemption for IIT Patna and NIT Rourkela September 23, 2026