Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12946 Case Name All India Motor Transport Congress Vs CIT (Exemption) (ITAT Delhi Bench) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Related Assessment Year NA Courts All ITAT, ITAT Delhi Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); All India Motor Transport Congress Vs CIT (Exemption) (ITAT Delhi Bench) A Trade Body Is Not Merely A Members’ Club—Promotion Of An Industry Advances General Public Utility U/s 2(15); Registration U/s 12A & 80G Restored Background The assessee, All India Motor Transport Congress, is a society established in 1951 for promoting & protecting the interests of the motor transport sector. It had enjoyed registration u/s 12A & approval u/s 80G for several years. The CIT(E), however, rejected its fresh application for registration u/s 12A by order dated 24 December 2025. According to the CIT(E), the activities of the society were exclusively intended for the mutual benefit of its members & did not benefit the public at large. On identical reasoning, the assessee’s application for approval u/s 80G(5)(ii) was also rejected. The assessee challenged both orders before the Tribunal. Assessee’s Contentions The assessee contended that, at the stage of registration u/s 12A & approval u/s 80G, the CIT(E) was required to examine its objects as contained in the Memorandum of Association & determine whether its actual activities were aligned with those objects. The CIT(E) had travelled beyond this limited inquiry & virtually assumed the role of the AO by examining whether particular activities or receipts qualified for exemption in individual years. The assessee argued that trade associations, by their very nature, undertake activities falling within “advancement of any other object of general public utility” u/s 2(15). Promotion of trade, commerce & industry is not confined to benefiting individual members; a healthy & organised industry contributes to employment, economic development, regulatory compliance, infrastructure & public welfare. Reliance was placed on the Supreme Court’s landmark ruling in CIT v. Andhra Chamber of Commerce, which recognised that advancement of trade & commerce constitutes an object of general public utility even if persons engaged in that trade incidentally derive benefits. The assessee further pointed out that registration u/s 12A had originally been granted on 23 September 1994 & registration u/s 12A(1)(ac)(i) was again granted on 24 September 2021. Similarly, approval u/s 80G(5) had been granted on 10 July 2008 & renewed on 24 September 2021. There was no allegation that its objects or essential activities had materially changed since those registrations were granted. Revenue’s Stand The Department argued that since the society had existed for a long period, the CIT(E) was entitled to look beyond the language of its Memorandum & examine its actual activities. According to the Revenue, the assessee principally functioned for the benefit of transport operators who were its members. Any resulting public benefit was merely secondary or incidental. It was therefore more appropriately regarded as a mutual benefit society than a charitable institution. Trade Promotion Is Public Utility The Tribunal described Andhra Chamber of Commerce as a locus classicus on the eligibility of trade associations for charitable registration. The Supreme Court had emphatically held as early as 1964 that promotion of trade, commerce & industry may constitute advancement of an object of general public utility. An object does not lose its public character merely because the persons engaged in the relevant industry receive an incidental benefit. The decisive consideration is the dominant or primary object of the organisation. The Tribunal also relied on Fertilizer Association of India, where the Delhi High Court considered receipts from registration charges for seminars, workshops & training programmes conducted for members. Following the Supreme Court’s decision in Surat Art Silk Cloth Manufacturers Association, the High Court held that where the dominant object remains charitable, fee-based or member-oriented activities incidental to that object do not alter the institution’s character. Thus, conducting seminars, workshops, training programmes or collecting registration charges would not automatically convert a trade association into a commercial or purely mutual organisation. Consistency Could Not Be Ignored The Tribunal attached considerable importance to the assessee’s long history of registration. Its charitable status had been examined & accepted by the Department repeatedly, including as recently as September 2021. Where the objects & nature of activities have remained substantially unchanged, the rule of consistency strongly favours continuation of registration. The Department cannot take a diametrically opposite view in a later cycle without identifying a material change in facts, objects or activities. The CIT(E)’s orders did not demonstrate any such transformation. The activities relied upon for rejection were merely incidental to the dominant objects contained in the Memorandum of Association. Registration Is Not Automatic Exemption Referring to the Supreme Court’s decision in International Healthcare Education & Research Institute, the Tribunal clarified that registration u/s 12A does not automatically entitle an institution to exemption u/s 11 in every assessment year. At the registration stage, the authority examines the objects & genuineness of activities. When the return is subsequently filed, the AO remains fully empowered to examine whether the institution actually applied its income for charitable purposes, complied with statutory conditions or deviated from its objects. Therefore, granting registration did not prevent the Revenue from scrutinising the assessee’s activities during regular assessment. If commercialisation, diversion of funds or departure from the objects was established in any year, the AO could deal with it in accordance with law. Decision The Tribunal held that the assessee’s activities were incidental to its dominant object of promoting the motor transport sector, which qualified as advancement of general public utility u/s 2(15). The assessee was consequently held eligible for both registration u/s 12A & approval u/s 80G. Both appeals were allowed. Key Takeaway A trade association does not cease to be charitable merely because its members incidentally benefit from its activities. Where its dominant purpose is advancement of an entire trade or industry, the resulting benefit extends beyond the membership & serves general public utility. Helping an industry to move forward is not the same as helping members fill their pockets—especially when the industry itself keeps the country moving. Cases Discussed CIT v. Andhra Chamber of Commerce, 55 ITR 722 (SC) Fertilizers Association of India, 399 ITR 209 (Del.) Surat Art Silk Cloth Manufacturers Association, 121 ITR 1 (SC) International Healthcare Education and Research Institute, 482 ITR 287 (SC) FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF ITAT DELHI 1. These are a batch of two appeals pertaining to the same assessee. In ITA No. 1786, through an order u/s 12A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereafter as “the Act”), dated 24.12.2025, the application seeking registration u/s 12A of the Act was rejected on the basis of a detailed finding of fact, whereby the activities of the assessee-society have been treated as exclusively meant for the mutual benefit of the members of the Association and not for the public at large. 1.1 ITA No.1787 has been filed against the order dated 24.12.2025, through which an application seeking registration u/s 80G(5)(ii) of the Act has been rejected on the same grounds as in the impugned order for ITA 1786. 1.2 The aggrieved assessee has filed appeals against both the impugned orders challenging the action of Ld. CIT(E), Delhi by stating that the assessee society has been in existence since 1951 and has been allowed the benefit of registration u/s 12A/80G of the Act in the past. 2. Before us the Ld. AR argued with the help of a paper book and several case laws. It was the argument that at the stage of considering registration us/ 12A/80G, the Ld. CIT(E) is supposed to examine the objectives of the assessee as contained in the Memorandum of Association and thereafter in case the activities are in line with such objects then the registration asked for should necessarily be granted. It was the submission that the Ld. CIT(E) has exceeded his brief in terms of going beyond the mandate provided to him and has stepped into the shoes of an Assessing Officer while giving the impugned findings. The Ld. AR stated that it has long since been settled that Trade Associations, like the assessee, are supposed to discharge functions conforming to the “advancement of any other object of general public utility” as contained in Section 2(15) of the Act. The Ld. AR relied on the case of Andhra Chamber of Commerce reported in 55 ITR 722 (SC) to canvass the point that the clause “objects of general public utility” has to be seen in a wider sense since promotion of trade, commerce and industry is vitally important for the public at large. The Ld. AR also relied on several coordinate bench decisions on similar issues. 2.1 The Ld. DR argued by relying on the impugned orders and stated that since the society was existing since long hence, the objects mentioned in the MOA deserved to be tested against the actual ground level activities of the trust. It was pointed out that in this case the assessee was primarily acting in the interest of its members only and therefore was actually a mutual benefit society, where the public interest was at best a secondary objective. 3. We have considered the rival submissions and have gone through the records before us. Right at the outset, it needs to be mentioned that the Andhra Chamber of Commerce case (supra) is a locus classicus on the issue of whether Trade Associations deserve to be a registered u/s 12A or not. The judgment delivered way back on 01.10.1964 has emphatically laid down the law that Trade Associations by their very nature promote public utility. We may also refer to the case of Fertilizers Association of India reported in 399 ITR 209 (Del.) for this proposition. In this case, the assessee was seen to be receiving money on account of registration charges etc. for seminars and workshops being held for information of its members. There were also activities like training being conducted on payment basis. The Hon’ble Delhi High Court, following earlier decisions in the case of Surat Art Silk Cloth MFGR reported in 121 ITR 1 (SC) and other decisions of the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, held that once the dominant object of the assessee remained charitable then other activities deserved to be treated as incidental to the main activity of the assessee. An important point that has been emphasized is that in case the nature of activities has not changed over a period of time then certainly it would be in favour of the assessee for considering registration u/s 12A of the Act in later years also, on grounds of consistency. We also find that in the case of International Healthcare Education and Research Institute, reported in 482 ITR 287 (SC), the following position has been clarified: – “14. We may agree to a certain extent with the Ld. ASG that the very purpose for any assessee to seek registration u/s 12AA of the Act is to claim exemption under Sections 10 and 11 respectively of the Act, as the case may be. Therefore, before seeking registration, it is essential that the Trust should adduce cogent material to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the activities are genuinely charitable in nature. 15. To the aforesaid extent there is no problem. We may only say that mere registration under Section 12AA of the Act automatically does not entitle any charitable trust to claim exemption under Sections 10 and 11 respectively of the Act, 1961. When a return is filed by any trust claiming exemption it is for the Assessing Officer to look into all the materials and satisfy itself whether the exemption has been claimed genuinely or not. If the Assessing Officer is not convinced it is always open for him to decline grant of exemption.” We also find that registration was granted u/s 12A of the Act on 23.09.1994 and registration u/s 12A(1)(ac)(i) of the Act dated 24.09.2021, in the past. We also find that approval u/s 80G(5) of the Act was granted vide order dated 10.07.2008 and again vide order dated 24.09.2021. Admittedly, while granting registration in the past the case of the assessee would have been examined on merits and only thereafter, the registration would have been granted. It deserves to be held that the assessee is eligible for registration u/s 12A & 80G of the Act on the ground that the activities described in the impugned orders are incidental to the dominant objectives contained in the MOA. We are also conscious of the fact that the Revenue has ample opportunity to examine whether, over a period of years, the activities of the assessee have deviated in any way from the objects contained in the MOA or not. For this purpose, there is ample opportunity available with Revenue for examination during regular assessment proceedings. For the present matter, suffice it to say, that the assessee deserves registration under both Section 12A & 80G of the Act as was applied for initially before the Ld. CIT(E). 4. In the result, both the appeals are allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 09.09.2026 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under ITAT Judgmentssection 11Section 12ASection 12AASection 80G Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,348 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty ITAT Delhi Deletes ₹2.82 Crore Bogus Purchase Addition for Lack of AO Investigation September 11, 2026 ITAT Chennai Quashes Reassessment for Invalid Section 151 Approval After Three Years September 11, 2026 ITAT Chennai: Trust’s Gross Receipts Cannot Be Taxed Without Computing Admissible Expenditure September 11, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax ITAT Delhi Deletes ₹2.82 Crore Bogus Purchase Addition for Lack of AO Investigation September 11, 2026 ITAT Chennai Quashes Reassessment for Invalid Section 151 Approval After Three Years September 11, 2026 ITAT Chennai: Trust’s Gross Receipts Cannot Be Taxed Without Computing Admissible Expenditure September 11, 2026 Chennai ITAT Deletes ₹43.55 Lakh Addition for Recorded Paddy Cash Sales September 11, 2026 ITAT Holds Only Real Net Online Gaming Winnings Taxable Under Section 115BB September 11, 2026 F&O Taxation: Business Income, Loss Set-Off and Turnover Rules September 11, 2026