Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13194 Case Name ITO Vs Sanjay Chandarana (ITAT Rajkot) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Related Assessment Year 2019-20 Courts All ITAT, ITAT Rajkot Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); ITO Vs Sanjay Chandarana (ITAT Rajkot) A Disallowed Political Donation Is Not Automatically “Misreporting”—200% Penalty Needs Proof of Falsehood, Not Merely a Failed Deduction The Rajkot Bench of the ITAT has held that the mere disallowance of a deduction claimed for donation to a political party does not automatically establish misreporting of income u/s 270A, attracting penalty at 200% of the tax payable. Where the deduction was openly claimed in the return, the relevant particulars were disclosed, and the AO failed to establish that the assessee had furnished false particulars or suppressed material facts, the enhanced penalty could not be sustained. The Revenue’s appeal was also dismissed because the tax effect was below the monetary limit prescribed by the CBDT for filing departmental appeals before the Tribunal. The assessee, Sanjay Chandarana, filed his return for AY 2019-20 declaring a total income of ₹5,63,780. In the return, he claimed a deduction of ₹4 lakh u/s 80GGB/80GGC, as recorded in the order, in respect of a donation stated to have been made to a registered political party. Subsequently, the Department received information from the Investigation Wing concerning alleged accommodation entries involving certain registered but unrecognised political parties. On the basis of this information, the assessee’s deduction of ₹4 lakh was disallowed and added back to his income. Consequent to the quantum addition, the AO initiated penalty proceedings u/s 270A for under-reporting and misreporting of income. He ultimately treated the disallowed donation claim as misreported income and imposed a penalty of ₹1,66,400, computed at 200% of the tax payable on the amount in question. The assessee challenged the penalty before the CIT(A), who accepted his case and deleted it. The Revenue thereafter approached the ITAT. Before the Tribunal, the assessee raised a preliminary objection that the tax effect involved in the Revenue’s appeal was below the monetary threshold prescribed under the applicable CBDT circular/instructions. Since those instructions are binding upon the Department, it was argued that the appeal was not maintainable. The assessee also contested the penalty on merits. It was submitted that the donation deduction had been claimed transparently in the return and that no particulars had been concealed. The AO had not produced material establishing that the assessee deliberately misrepresented the transaction, furnished inaccurate information or suppressed a relevant fact. The assessee had accepted the disallowance and paid the consequential tax. However, it was argued that acceptance of the quantum addition could not, by itself, amount to an admission of misreporting. Quantum proceedings and penalty proceedings serve different purposes, and a disallowance does not mechanically justify penal consequences. Reliance was placed upon the Supreme Court’s decision in CIT v. Reliance Petroproducts Pvt. Ltd., wherein it was held that merely making an unsustainable claim in law does not amount to furnishing inaccurate particulars when the particulars disclosed by the taxpayer are not shown to be incorrect or false. The Revenue supported the penalty order and contended that the levy was justified. The ITAT first accepted the assessee’s objection concerning monetary limits. It found that the tax effect involved was below the CBDT’s prescribed threshold for filing an appeal before the Tribunal. The Departmental instructions were binding, and the Revenue’s appeal was liable to be dismissed on that ground alone. Nevertheless, the Tribunal also examined the penalty on merits. It observed that the deduction had been claimed in the return itself and was duly disclosed. The mere fact that the claim was later disallowed did not establish that the assessee had misreported income within the meaning of s.270A. The record contained no material demonstrating that the assessee furnished false particulars or suppressed material facts with the object of evading tax. The AO had apparently proceeded from the disallowance of the deduction to the imposition of penalty without independently establishing the ingredients of misreporting. The ITAT further held that the assessee’s acceptance of the addition and payment of the resulting tax did not justify the inference that misreporting had occurred. An assessee may accept an addition for several reasons, including avoiding prolonged litigation. Such acceptance cannot substitute the AO’s obligation to establish the statutory conditions for penalty. Applying the principle in Reliance Petroproducts, the Tribunal concluded that where the disclosed particulars were not proved to be inaccurate or false, an unsuccessful deduction claim could not, by itself, attract penalty. The order of the CIT(A) deleting the penalty of ₹1,66,400 was accordingly upheld, and the Revenue’s appeal was dismissed both on account of low tax effect and on merits. Author’s Comments The decision reiterates that assessment and penalty are separate proceedings. Disallowance of a political-donation deduction determines the taxable income; it does not automatically determine whether the claim involved deliberate misreporting. Section 270A itself distinguishes between ordinary under-reporting and the more serious category of misreporting. Penalty for under-reporting is generally 50% of the tax payable on under-reported income, whereas misreporting attracts 200%. The higher consequence requires the case to fall within the specified forms of misconduct, such as misrepresentation or suppression of facts, failure to record investments or receipts, recording a false entry, or claiming expenditure without evidence. Accordingly, where the Department alleges that a political donation was merely an accommodation entry, it should bring transaction-specific material linking the assessee to the alleged arrangement. General investigation information concerning a political party may justify enquiry and even disallowance, but a 200% penalty should require evidence showing that the particular assessee knowingly participated in a sham transaction. The reliance upon Reliance Petroproducts, which arose under the earlier penalty provision in s.271(1)(c), should be understood with caution. Section 270A contains its own definitions of under-reporting and misreporting. The principle that a rejected claim is not automatically penal remains relevant, but the statutory categories under s.270A must still be independently applied. The deletion here does not mean that penalty can never be imposed in bogus political-donation cases. If the Revenue establishes cash-back arrangements, fabricated receipts, false entries, or a deliberate accommodation-entry mechanism, the case may squarely involve misrepresentation or false recording. Also, although the appeal was independently barred by the monetary limit, practitioners must verify whether any exception under the applicable CBDT instructions covers the particular departmental appeal. The enduring principle is balanced: a deduction may fail for want of entitlement, but a 200% penalty cannot follow unless the claim is proved false in the manner contemplated by s.270A. Disallowance is a tax conclusion; misreporting is a charge that must be established. Cases Discussed ITO Vs Sanjay Chandarana (ITAT Rajkot) — The principal case concerns penalty of ₹1,66,400 under section 270A arising from disallowance of a ₹4 lakh political-donation deduction under sections 80GGB/80GGC. The Tribunal upheld deletion of the penalty after finding that the claim had been disclosed in the return and that the Revenue had not established false particulars or suppression of material facts. CIT v. Reliance Petroproducts Pvt. Ltd. (Supreme Court) — Relied upon for the principle that merely making an incorrect or unsustainable claim does not, without more, amount to furnishing inaccurate particulars where the particulars furnished by the assessee are not shown to be false or incorrect. Mahendra N. Patel Vs DCIT (ITAT Ahmedabad) — The supplied discussion of section 270A is consistent with the TaxGuru publication concerning deletion of penalty where misreporting or under-reporting was not established. Hiro Mulchand Tanwani Vs ITO (ITAT Ahmedabad) — The TaxGuru publication concerns deletion of section 270A penalty arising from disallowance of a deduction claimed under section 80GGC for a political donation. Kaushal Jugal Taparia Vs DCIT (ITAT Ahmedabad) — The TaxGuru publication concerns penalty under section 270A following disallowance of a section 80GGC political-donation deduction. FULL TEXT OF THE ORDER OF ITAT RAJKOT Captioned appeal filed by the revenue, pertaining to Assessment Year (AY) 2019-20, is directed against the order under section 250 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 [hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’] passed by the National Faceless Appeal Centre [hereinafter referred to as ‘NFAC’], dated 28.01.2026, which in turn arises out of a penalty proceedings under section 270A of the Act dated 18.07.2025 by ITO, ward 2(4), Porbandar. 02. Brief facts of the case are that the assessee filed its return of income for the income, the assessee claimed deduction of Rs.4,00,000/- under section 80GGB/ 80GGC of the Income-tax Act, 1961, in respect of donations stated to have been made to a registered political party. Subsequently, on the basis of information received from the Investigation Wing regarding accommodation enter to certain registered unrecognised political parties, the assessment was completed by disallowing the aforesaid deduction and adding back Rs.4,00,000/- to the total income of the assessee. Consequent thereto, penalty proceedings under section 270A of the Act were initiated against the assessee for under-reporting/misreporting of income. The Income Tax Officer thereafter levied penalty of Rs.1,66,400/-, being 200% of the tax payable on the amount treated as misreported income, under section 270A of the Act. 03. Aggrieved by the penalty order, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Ld. CIT(A), who allowed the appeal and deleted the penalty levied under section 270A of the Act. 04. Dissatisfied with the above order the Revenue is in appeal before the tribunal. At the time of hearing, the Ld. AR submitted that the tax effect involved in the present appeal is below the prescribed monetary limit stipulated by the CBDT for filing appeals before the tribunal. Therefore, in view of the CBDT Circular/Instructions governing monetary limits, the present appeal filed by the Revenue deserves to be dismissed on this ground alone. He, further submitted that, even on merits, the penalty is not sustainable. He submitted that the Assessing Officer has not brought any material on record to establish that the assessee had deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars or misreported its income. The claim of deduction was made openly and transparently in the return of income and all relevant particulars were duly disclosed. The assessee, upon being confronted with the issue, claim made by the assessee was subsequently disallowed, the same cannot automatically lead to the conclusion that the assessee had misreported its income so as to attract penalty under section 270A of the Act.. In support of his contention, the Ld. AR relied upon the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in CIT v. Reliance Petro products Pvt. Ltd., wherein it has been held that merely making an incorrect claim in law does not amount to furnishing inaccurate particulars of income when the particulars furnished by the assessee are not found to be incorrect or false. 05. The Ld. DR, on the other hand, supported the order of the Assessing Officer and submitted that the penalty had rightly been levied. 06. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available on record. At the outset, we find that the tax effect involved in the present appeal is below the prescribed monetary limit stipulated by the CBDT for filing an appeal before the tribunal. The said instructions are binding upon the Department. On this ground alone, the appeal of the Revenue is liable to be dismissed. Even otherwise, on merits, we find that the assessee had made the claim for deduction in the return of income itself and the claim was duly disclosed. The mere fact that the claim was subsequently disallowed cannot, by itself, establish that the assessee had misreported its income within the meaning of section 270A of the Act. There is nothing on record to demonstrate that the assessee had furnished any false particulars or suppressed any material facts with a view to evade tax. It is also relevant that the assessee accepted the addition and paid the consequential tax. Such acceptance of the addition, by itself, cannot be a valid ground for concluding that the assessee had committed misreporting of income warranting levy of penalty at the rate of 200% under section 270A of the Act. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in CIT v. Reliance Petro products Pvt. Ltd. has held that where the particulars furnished by the assessee are amount to furnishing inaccurate particulars of income. Applying the ratio of the said decision to the facts of the present case, we find no justification for sustaining the penalty levied under section 270A of the Act. In view of the foregoing discussion, we do not find any infirmity in the order of the Ld. CIT(A) deleting the penalty. Accordingly, the order of the Ld. CIT(A) is upheld and the appeal of the Revenue is dismissed. 07. In the result, the appeal of the Revenue is dismissed. Order pronounced in the open court on this 11th day of September, 2026. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under ITAT JudgmentsSection 270A Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,418 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty Loan Repaid Before Reopening Cannot Be Treated as Fictitious u/s 68: ITAT Raipur September 16, 2026 A Debatable Issue Cannot Be Settled by CPC’s Algorithm — Section 87A Rebate on STCG Restored September 16, 2026 NRE Salary Credits Not Unexplained U/s 69A Without Contradictory Evidence: ITAT Pune September 16, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Loan Repaid Before Reopening Cannot Be Treated as Fictitious u/s 68: ITAT Raipur September 16, 2026 A Debatable Issue Cannot Be Settled by CPC’s Algorithm — Section 87A Rebate on STCG Restored September 16, 2026 NRE Salary Credits Not Unexplained U/s 69A Without Contradictory Evidence: ITAT Pune September 16, 2026 ITAT Jaipur Allows Section 87A Rebate on STCG under Section 111A September 16, 2026 ITAT Surat Remands Section 69 Addition for Verification of Additional Evidence September 16, 2026 Section 151 Approval After Section 148 Notice Invalidates Reassessment: ITAT Rajkot September 16, 2026