Summary: USD–INR currency derivatives are regulated financial contracts, not an unrestricted route to speculate on exchange rates. RBI guidance identifies hedging exchange-rate risk as the permitted purpose for foreign-currency–rupee derivatives and distinguishes these contracts from foreign-currency cross pairs. An exchange-listed contract must also comply with exchange, broker, margin and position requirements; the availability of a trading screen does not establish that a proposed trade is permissible. Businesses using derivatives to manage import, export, borrowing or other currency exposure should retain records of the underlying exposure, hedge rationale, approvals and settlement. Income-tax characterisation requires a separate assessment of section 43(5), business circumstances, losses and tax-audit rules. Accounting depends on the reporting framework, including AS 11, Ind AS 211 and, where applicable, Ind AS 109. This article explains the distinctions and the compliance trail without providing trading recommendations. Table of Contents▸ Regulatory Framework: FEMA and RBI Permissions Permitted Venues, Brokers and Online Forex Platforms How Businesses Should Document an Underlying Currency Exposure Illustration: Importer with a dollar payable USD–INR Futures and Options: Contract Mechanics and Risk Income-Tax Classification: Section 43(5) and Business Context Turnover, Tax Audit and Return Reporting GST on Brokerage and Related Services Accounting: AS 11, Ind AS 21 and Ind AS 109 Common Compliance Errors Frequently Asked Questions 1. Can Indian residents trade USD–INR futures for unrestricted speculation? 2. Is an offshore forex app legal merely because it accepts Indian customers? 3. Can LRS funds be used for margin trading on an overseas forex platform? 4. Does every USD–INR futures profit qualify as non-speculative business income? 5. Is notional value the correct turnover for tax audit? 6. Is GST charged on the full USD–INR contract amount? 7. Does a treasury hedge automatically qualify for hedge accounting? 8. What documents should a business retain? Key Takeaways Show all 20 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Regulatory Framework: FEMA and RBI Permissions The Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA), RBI directions and recognised-exchange rules jointly govern foreign-exchange derivatives. A key distinction is between a foreign-currency–rupee pair such as USD–INR and a foreign-currency cross pair such as EUR–USD. The RBI’s forex FAQs, updated 28 August 2024, state that hedging exchange-rate risk is the permitted purpose for FCY–INR derivative transactions; they state that FCY–FCY derivatives have no purpose restriction under that FAQ. These statements must be read with the operative regulations, eligibility conditions and subsequent amendments for the particular user and instrument. An exporter with an expected dollar receipt, for example, may face a decline in the rupee value of that receipt if the dollar weakens. An importer with a dollar payable may face a higher rupee cost if the dollar strengthens. A currency hedge is intended to address such exposure; its gain or loss cannot sensibly be analysed without the corresponding commercial transaction. A derivative may itself create mark-to-market movements, margin calls and settlement obligations even where the underlying exposure is economically offset. The RBI also distinguishes over-the-counter derivatives entered into with authorised dealers from exchange-traded derivatives. An OTC forward has a negotiated contractual structure, whereas an exchange-traded future is standardised, margined and subject to clearing-house arrangements. The fact that both reference USD–INR does not make their legal, credit, liquidity or accounting treatment identical. Permitted Venues, Brokers and Online Forex Platforms RBI guidance says residents may undertake permitted forex transactions only with authorised persons, and electronically only through RBI-authorised electronic trading platforms or recognised stock exchanges under applicable conditions. The RBI identifies NSE, BSE and MSE in its public FAQs. An authorised exchange is not a blanket permission to undertake any trade for any purpose: the user, currency pair, derivative and underlying exposure remain relevant. Offshore leveraged forex contracts for difference, social-media trading links and websites that accept margin in foreign currency require particular caution. RBI states that margin remittances to overseas exchanges or counterparties are not permitted under the Liberalised Remittance Scheme. Its Alert List is not exhaustive; absence from the list does not establish authorisation. Before funding a platform, users should independently verify the intermediary and venue against the official RBI and exchange records. Transaction or venue Main regulatory question USD–INR futures on recognised exchange Is the contract and user activity permitted, including the hedging purpose and exchange conditions? USD–INR forward with authorised dealer Is the underlying exposure and documentation consistent with RBI directions and bank terms? Foreign-currency cross pair Which RBI user, product and venue conditions apply? Offshore margin-based forex portal Is the person/platform authorised and is the proposed remittance permissible? How Businesses Should Document an Underlying Currency Exposure An effective treasury file connects the derivative to a real currency risk. For an importer, that may include a purchase order, invoice, expected payment date, currency amount and the projected rupee cost. For an exporter, the file may include a customer contract, shipping or service records, expected collection date and the portion of the receipt hedged. Foreign-currency loans and anticipated transactions require their own supporting records and assessments of eligibility under the applicable rules. The hedge register should identify the transaction reference, counterparty, currency pair, notional amount, trade date, maturity, underlying exposure, person approving the hedge, and subsequent cancellation or rollover. Where expected cash flows change, the hedge should be reassessed rather than automatically rolled forward. Controls should detect duplicate hedges, excessive notional amounts, mismatched maturities and positions remaining after the commercial exposure has been settled. Illustration: Importer with a dollar payable Suppose an Indian importer expects to pay USD 100,000 after three months. At an illustrative rate of ₹84 per dollar, the exposure corresponds to ₹84 lakh. If the rate at payment is ₹86, the unhedged rupee amount becomes ₹86 lakh, a ₹2 lakh increase. A properly matched hedge may offset some of that change, but the outcome depends on the contract price, basis, costs, settlement and actual payment date. These illustrative rates are not market quotes, forecasts or a statement of hedge profitability. USD–INR Futures and Options: Contract Mechanics and Risk Exchange-traded currency futures typically involve daily mark-to-market settlement and initial and additional margin. An adverse market move can require cash even if the underlying business exposure has moved favourably. Options involve a premium and different payoff structure; an option buyer’s premium is not equivalent to the margin and risk borne by an option seller. Position limits, permitted strikes, lot size, expiry and trading hours should be checked in the current exchange contract specifications rather than copied from an older article. Companies should reconcile broker contract notes with exchange statements, bank settlements and general-ledger entries. The relevant transaction records include realised gains and losses, option premiums, charges, outstanding positions, cash margins and mark-to-market balances. A large notional exposure is not itself the same as taxable turnover or income. Income-Tax Classification: Section 43(5) and Business Context Section 43(5) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 defines speculative transactions and contains exceptions for specified circumstances, including eligible derivative transactions subject to statutory conditions. Whether a particular currency derivative qualifies for an exception requires examination of the precise instrument, the exchange and the applicable conditions; the phrase “exchange traded” alone is not a sufficient tax opinion. A commercial hedge associated with business operations may raise different issues from an independent trading position. The treatment of a profit or loss also depends on whether the transaction belongs to an existing business, the accounting method, its relationship to a revenue or capital exposure and the relevant assessment year. Loss set-off and carry-forward rules should be evaluated only after determining the correct character of the activity. A FEMA compliance conclusion does not, by itself, determine income-tax classification, and a tax computation cannot legalise a transaction prohibited under FEMA. Turnover, Tax Audit and Return Reporting For tax audit under section 44AB, taxpayers must first determine the nature of the activity, relevant turnover or gross receipts, applicable threshold and the impact of the statutory conditions for the financial year. Derivatives turnover is not necessarily the sum of notional contract values. ICAI guidance and the taxpayer’s transaction-level records are important when assessing favourable and unfavourable differences and option premiums. A method adopted for tax audit should be documented and reconciled with the books and broker statements. Income-tax returns must accurately reflect the business or other relevant income category, allowable expenditure, losses and carried-forward amounts. Businesses should retain the underlying hedge file, trade confirmations, daily settlements and accounting reconciliation so that the figures can be substantiated if questioned. The return form, schedules and audit requirements depend on the taxpayer’s actual facts; there is no universal form for every USD–INR derivative user. GST on Brokerage and Related Services The derivative contract and the intermediary’s services are distinct for GST analysis. Brokerage, platform and other taxable services may carry GST under the applicable classification and invoicing rules, while treatment of the underlying financial instrument must be analysed separately. The presence of GST on a contract note does not mean that the notional value of every currency derivative is a taxable supply of services. Input-tax-credit eligibility depends on the recipient’s registration, business use and the restrictions and conditions of the CGST Act. For services procured from an overseas provider, any place-of-supply or reverse-charge issue requires separate analysis. This is not a substitute for checking whether the underlying foreign-exchange activity and payment arrangement are lawful under FEMA. Accounting: AS 11, Ind AS 21 and Ind AS 109 For entities following Accounting Standards, AS 11 addresses accounting for foreign-currency transactions and specified exchange differences. Ind AS 21 addresses foreign-currency transactions and translation for Ind AS reporters, while Ind AS 109 governs recognition and measurement of many derivatives and the requirements for hedge accounting. The applicable standard depends on the reporting entity, its accounting framework and the specific financial instrument. A derivative may be measured at fair value with gains or losses recognised under the applicable accounting rules. Hedge accounting is not obtained merely by calling a contract a hedge: formal designation, documentation of the risk-management objective, identification of the hedged item and assessment of qualifying criteria are relevant. Treasury, finance and audit teams should agree on a consistent valuation source, treatment of transaction costs, and the presentation of profit-and-loss or other comprehensive income effects where permitted. Control Suggested documentary evidence Purpose Permission and venue RBI directions, broker registration, exchange contract rules Confirm legal route Underlying exposure Invoice, order, loan terms, cash-flow schedule Substantiate hedge purpose Execution Contract note, deal confirmation, approvals Trace trade terms Settlement and valuation Margin ledger, daily MTM, bank statement Reconcile realised and unrealised figures Tax and accounts Turnover working, tax computation, accounting policy Support return and financial statements Common Compliance Errors The most consequential mistakes include assuming that an offshore platform is authorised because it has an Indian website; using LRS to fund overseas speculative margin; treating the RBI Alert List as exhaustive; opening USD–INR positions without checking the permitted hedging purpose; retaining hedges after the underlying exposure has disappeared; and calculating turnover from contract notional values without analysing the applicable tax-audit methodology. A separate recurring error is to treat the accounting hedge designation as proof of tax or FEMA compliance. Each of these questions requires its own evidence and legal analysis. Frequently Asked Questions 1. Can Indian residents trade USD–INR futures for unrestricted speculation? RBI’s published forex FAQs identify hedging exchange-rate risk as the permitted purpose for FCY–INR derivatives. The applicable directions and exchange conditions should be checked for the user and contract; availability on an exchange does not remove the purpose requirement. 2. Is an offshore forex app legal merely because it accepts Indian customers? No. Accessibility, advertising or a local payment option does not establish authorisation. RBI requires residents to use authorised persons and permitted venues for permitted transactions. 3. Can LRS funds be used for margin trading on an overseas forex platform? RBI’s forex FAQs state that LRS remittances for margins or margin calls to overseas exchanges or counterparties are not permitted. 4. Does every USD–INR futures profit qualify as non-speculative business income? No automatic conclusion follows. section 43(5), the exact transaction and statutory exception conditions, and the taxpayer’s business facts must be considered. 5. Is notional value the correct turnover for tax audit? Not automatically. Turnover requires an appropriate derivatives methodology, supporting transaction data and review of applicable ICAI guidance and section 44AB. 6. Is GST charged on the full USD–INR contract amount? The derivative instrument and taxable intermediary services must be distinguished. Brokerage and other services require their own GST analysis; notional contract amount should not mechanically be treated as service consideration. 7. Does a treasury hedge automatically qualify for hedge accounting? No. The applicable AS or Ind AS framework and, for Ind AS 109 hedge accounting, documentation and qualifying criteria must be assessed. 8. What documents should a business retain? Underlying commercial contracts, exposure calculations, treasury approvals, deal confirmations, broker statements, margin and bank records, valuations, accounting entries and tax workings should be retained as relevant. Key Takeaways USD–INR derivatives must be assessed against RBI’s hedging-purpose guidance and applicable exchange rules. A recognised exchange or broker does not make every intended transaction permissible. Commercial hedges need a documented underlying exposure and periodic reconciliation. section 43(5), tax-audit turnover, GST on services and accounting rules require separate analyses. RBI does not permit LRS remittances for overseas forex trading margins. Authorisation must be verified positively; absence from an RBI alert list is not proof. ***** Disclaimer: This article is intended for general educational and informational purposes as of 8 October 2026. It does not constitute investment, trading, accounting, legal or tax advice and does not recommend any currency position, platform, broker or derivative strategy. RBI directions, exchange rules, tax provisions and accounting standards may be amended, and the consequences depend on the taxpayer’s residence, commercial exposure, transaction terms and applicable reporting framework. Readers should verify the latest original rules and seek advice from appropriately qualified professionals before taking action. TaxGuru assumes no responsibility for any errors, omissions, reliance, regulatory consequences, financial losses or decisions based on this article. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under FEMAForex Trading Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,366 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Bank Lien Notice Quantifies Tax Dues for SVLDRS: Bombay HC October 8, 2026 LIC Amritbaal Plan 774: Benefits, Guaranteed Additions, GST and Tax Rules in 2026 October 8, 2026 US Suspends Infosys, TCS, Wipro, HCL and Cognizant From Green Card Programme Amid Visa Fraud Allegations October 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance FSSAI Adds Four Food Testing Labs, Removes Gujarat Lab October 8, 2026 JSW Steel reports 7.27 million tonnes of crude steel production in Q2 FY27 October 8, 2026 TCS reports robust Q2 growth with strategic partnerships and AI revenue boost October 8, 2026 TP Solar achieves significant production milestones in Q2 FY27 October 8, 2026 Air India enhances global travel with Tata Communications EasyRoam SIM October 8, 2026 Tata Steel Reports Strong Production and Delivery Growth in 2QFY2027 October 7, 2026