Summary: The Reserve Bank of India has introduced a forward-looking Expected Credit Loss (ECL) provisioning framework through the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Asset Classification, Provisioning and Income Recognition) Directions, 2026, effective from 1 April 2027. The framework requires covered commercial banks to assess changes in credit risk continuously and recognise either 12-month or lifetime expected credit losses through a three-stage approach, while retaining existing prudential NPA recognition norms including the 90-day overdue criterion. ECL must be probability-weighted and incorporate reasonable forward-looking information, multiple economic scenarios and relevant macroeconomic variables. On transition, banks must fair-value their loan portfolios, with specified adjustments made against opening retained earnings rather than the Profit & Loss Account. RBI has also provided transitional regulatory capital relief through 31 March 2031. The framework introduces Effective Interest Rate methodology, enhanced modelling, data, governance and disclosure requirements, and will require significant coordination across banks’ credit, risk, finance, technology, analytics and audit functions. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Applicability: What is Expected Credit Loss? Broadly: ECL is different from NPA classification Probability-weighted and forward-looking assessment Transition to the ECL framework Impact on capital Effective Interest Rate methodology What will change for banks? Expected impact on profitability and provisioning Reporting requirements Key takeaway Show all 13 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has introduced a significant change in the prudential framework governing asset classification and provisioning by banks through the Reserve Bank of India (Commercial Banks – Asset Classification, Provisioning and Income Recognition) Directions, 2026. The new framework, issued on 27 April 2026, will come into effect from 1 April 2027 and will replace the existing Income Recognition, Asset Classification and Provisioning (IRACP) framework applicable to commercial bank The key change is the introduction of a forward-looking Expected Credit Loss (ECL) approach for provisioning. Unlike the traditional provisioning framework, which is substantially linked to the classification of an account after deterioration or default, ECL requires banks to recognise expected credit losses based on the risk of future losses. Applicability: The new Directions apply to specified commercial banks, including banking companies, corresponding new banks and State Bank of India, as defined under the Banking Regulation Act. Small Finance Banks, Payments Banks and Local Area Banks are excluded from this definition of “Commercial Banks” for these Directions. Therefore, while the ECL framework represents a major change for the commercial banking sector, it should not technically be described as applying to every category of bank regulated by RBI. What is Expected Credit Loss? Expected Credit Loss is a forward-looking estimate of the credit losses that a bank expects to incur on its financial assets. The fundamental principle is that a bank should not wait for an actual default or significant deterioration in an asset before recognising the associated credit risk. Instead, it must continuously assess changes in credit risk and recognise an appropriate loss allowance. The RBI framework requires banks, at each reporting date, to assess whether the credit risk of a financial instrument has increased significantly since its initial recognition. Broadly: Stage 1: Where there has been no significant increase in credit risk, the bank will recognise 12-month expected credit losses. Stage 2: Where there has been a significant increase in credit risk but the asset is not credit-impaired, the bank will recognise lifetime expected credit losses. Stage 3: Where the asset is credit-impaired, the bank will recognise lifetime expected credit losses. Thus, the ECL framework introduces a three-stage approach to measuring credit losses. Business Standard: ECL is different from NPA classification A critical point is that the introduction of ECL does not eliminate the existing NPA framework. The RBI has retained the existing prudential norms relating to NPA recognition, including the 90-day overdue criterion. ECL operates as a forward-looking provisioning framework, while NPA classification continues to serve its prudential purpose. Consequently, banks will need to manage two related but distinct concepts: Asset classification – whether an account is performing, stressed or non-performing under regulatory norms; and Expected credit loss provisioning – the amount of loss that is expected to arise from the financial asset based on its credit risk. Probability-weighted and forward-looking assessment One of the important features of the new framework is that ECL should not simply represent a best-case or worst-case estimate. The RBI framework requires ECL to represent an unbiased and probability-weighted amount, determined by considering a range of possible outcomes. Banks are required to use multiple scenarios and consider the relationship between relevant macroeconomic variables and the components of ECL. Scenario probabilities are to be determined using historical experience, expert judgement and the bank’s approved governance framework. This means that banks will need to incorporate forward-looking economic information into their credit-loss estimation processes. Transition to the ECL framework The transition date is 1 April 2027, with the ECL requirement being calculated with reference to the bank’s balance sheet position as at 31 March 2027. A particularly important transition provision relates to the measurement of the existing loan portfolio. On the transition date, banks are required to fair-value their entire loan portfolio, including outstanding advances. Any resulting difference between the fair value and the carrying amount immediately before transition is to be adjusted against opening retained earnings and is not to be routed through the Profit & Loss Account. Impact on capital The transition to ECL could result in an increase in provisioning requirements for some banks. Recognising the possible impact on regulatory capital, RBI has provided a transitional arrangement. Where ECL provisions as of 1 April 2027 exceed the provisions held under the existing IRACP framework as of 31 March 2027, the excess constitutes the relevant transitional adjustment. This adjustment will be made against opening earnings rather than through the Profit & Loss Account. Banks may also, at their option, obtain regulatory capital relief by adding back a prescribed portion of the transitional adjustment, net of applicable taxes, to Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital during the transition period ending 31 March 2031. Effective Interest Rate methodology The new framework also introduces requirements concerning the use of the Effective Interest Rate (EIR) for ECL computation. For financial instruments originated or invested in on or after 1 April 2027, ECL is to be computed using the EIR determined at initial recognition. For purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets, the relevant credit-adjusted effective interest rate is to be used. For the opening ECL as of 1 April 2027, banks have an interim option to use the contractual interest rate as the discounting factor. However, ECL computation for outstanding loans is required to be fully migrated to the EIR regime by 31 March 2030. What will change for banks? The ECL framework is likely to require substantial changes in banks’ credit-risk management and provisioning processes. Banks will need to strengthen: Credit-risk data and historical loss databases; Probability of Default (PD), Loss Given Default (LGD) and Exposure at Default (EAD) estimation; Credit-risk staging mechanisms; Identification of significant increases in credit risk; Forward-looking macroeconomic assumptions; Multiple economic scenarios and probability weightings; ECL models and validation processes; Data governance and model documentation; Internal controls and Board-level oversight; and Financial reporting and disclosures. The change is therefore much more than an accounting or provisioning exercise. It will require close coordination between the credit, risk, finance, treasury, technology, data analytics and internal audit functions of banks. Expected impact on profitability and provisioning The immediate impact of ECL will vary from bank to bank depending upon the composition and quality of its loan portfolio, historical loss experience, credit-risk migration, collateral position, economic assumptions and existing provisions. Banks with portfolios having higher credit-risk migration may experience a greater increase in loss allowances, while the impact on banks with relatively stable credit portfolios could be different. Importantly, ECL may also introduce greater volatility in provisions because forward-looking economic assumptions and changes in credit risk can affect the estimated loss allowance before an account actually becomes an NPA. Reporting requirements The first reporting under the ECL framework will be based on the financial position as at 30 June 2027. Comparative financial information under the new framework will begin from the reporting period ending 31 March 2028. Banks will also continue to report quarterly unaudited financial results under the existing regulatory framework up to 31 December 2027, providing a period of transition between the old and new regimes. Key takeaway The RBI’s ECL framework represents a fundamental shift from a predominantly incurred/delinquency-linked provisioning approach towards forward-looking credit-loss recognition. From 1 April 2027, banks will be expected to identify and quantify credit losses much earlier by continuously assessing changes in credit risk and incorporating historical experience, current conditions and reasonable forward-looking information. For banks, the transition should therefore not be viewed merely as a change in provisioning norms. It is a comprehensive transformation of the credit-risk measurement, data, modelling, governance and financial-reporting architecture. With the implementation date approaching, banks will need to focus well in advance on model development and validation, data readiness, technology integration, governance structures, staff training and parallel-run exercises so that the transition to ECL is orderly and does not create avoidable disruption to financial reporting or regulatory capital management. In essence, the ECL framework seeks to make bank provisioning more forward-looking by requiring banks to recognise expected credit losses before credit deterioration crystallises into actual losses Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under FEMAreserve bank of india Author Info Name: Reetika Siddharth Upadhyay Qualification: MBA Company: UPADHYAY FINTAX ADVISORY SERVICES Location: Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 9 View full profile → More from Reetika Siddharth Upadhyay 100 Powerful AI Prompts for Professional Auditors to Improve Audit Efficiency September 27, 2026 Labour Codes for Banks: RBI Compliance, Governance and Audit Implications September 23, 2026 Tax Audit checklist for Trust in India October 25, 2021 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Fema / RBI Export Declaration Form (EDF) for Services: New FEMA Declaration from 1 October 2026 October 4, 2026 FEMA Export-Import Regulations 2026: Key Changes Effective 1 October 2026 October 4, 2026 RBI Export Declaration Form (EDF) Rules for Export of Services from 1 October 2026 October 4, 2026 RBI EDF Compliance for Influencers Receiving Overseas Income from 1 October 2026 October 4, 2026 RBI Mandates BIS-Certified Note Sorting Machines Under New Master Direction October 2, 2026 RBI Amends Local Area Bank Shareholding Rules with One-Time Approval for Qualifying Investors October 2, 2026