Analysis of the Draft Red Herring Prospectus of Maharashtra Oil Extractions Limited Summary: Maharashtra Oil Extractions Limited, engaged in processing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of products across the soybean value chain, has filed its Draft Red Herring Prospectus dated September 13, 2026. The company manufactures crude and refined edible oil, plant protein-based feed, food-grade soya meal, soya flour and Textured Soya Protein, and also produces cottonseed and sunflower oil under the Murli and MOEL brands. It operates four manufacturing facilities in Maharashtra and has an annual soybean crushing capacity of 420,000 metric tons and edible oil refining capacity of 61,050 metric tons as of July 31, 2026. The proposed fresh issue of equity shares is up to ₹3,700 million, with substantial proceeds proposed for manufacturing-facility upgrades, refinery capacity enhancement, a packaging unit and working capital. Financially, revenue from operations increased from ₹17,449.01 million in FY 2024 to ₹22,115.37 million in FY 2026, while EBITDA increased from ₹458.68 million to ₹1,321.35 million. PAT rose sharply from ₹173.52 million in FY 2024 to ₹870.81 million in FY 2025 before marginally declining to ₹862.22 million in FY 2026. Key disclosed risks include raw-material price and availability, geographic concentration, competition, ongoing litigation and dependence on a single customer for certain exports. The DRHP also discloses criminal and tax proceedings involving the company, promoters and related persons. The analysis given in this report is based on the Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP) of Maharashtra Oil Extractions Limited dated September 13, 2026. The regulatory framework for such public issues is principally contained in the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018. Table of Contents▸ Overview of Business Analysis of Industry Use of Funds Risk Factors Dependence on Supply and Price of Raw Materials Geographic Concentration Competition Current Litigations Dependence on a Single Customer for Exports Management and Promoters Financial Statements Key Financial Highlights Outstanding Litigation Key Litigations Regulatory Framework for the DRHP Show all 15 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Overview of Business Maharashtra Oil Extractions Limited is engaged in the business of processing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling various products in the soybean value chain. This includes crude and refined edible oil, plant protein-based feed and food-grade soya meal, and value-added products such as soya flour and Textured Soya Protein (TSP). The company produces and sells cottonseed and sunflower oil, with its products marketed under the brand names Murli and MOEL. The Company has four manufacturing facilities located at Dhule, Nandurbar and Gangakhed in Maharashtra (three owned by the Company and one by its subsidiary BNPL). The capacity for both crushing of soybean and refining of edible oil stands at 420,000 metric tons per annum (MTPA) and 61,050 MTPA, respectively, as of 31st July 2026. The company has made considerable inroads in relation to exports to countries in East Asia like Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, and Vietnam. Analysis of Industry In the document, a review of the industry is provided by CARE Analytics and Advisory Private Limited. The report highlights issues on the international and Indian economic outlook, with a focus on the edible oil and soya bean processing industry. The report considers that the Indian economy is expected to grow steadily and this will further boost demand for edible oils and relevant others. The analysis in the document covers the growth of the middle class and rural economy of the country, among other issues affecting the economy of the country. Use of Funds As part of raising funds, the company plans to carry out a new issue of equity shares with a total value of up to ₹3,700 million: Financing the modernisation/upgradation of the Nandurbar Manufacturing Facility: ₹138.44 million Financing capital expenditure at the Dhule Manufacturing Facility Capacity enhancement and upgradation of refinery: ₹347.96 million Financing the setting up of a Packaging Unit: ₹592.06 million Financing the modernisation/upgradation of the Gangakhed Manufacturing Facility: ₹194.25 million Funding the working capital requirements: ₹1,250.00 million General Corporate Purposes Based on the Company’s business plan, internal management estimates and a Detailed Project Report. Any bank or financial institution has not appraised the objects of the Offer. The disclosure and utilisation of the objects of a public issue are governed by the SEBI ICDR Regulations, 2018 and the applicable SEBI framework. SEBI has also consolidated the operative circulars relating to the ICDR Regulations through its Master Circular for SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018. Risk Factors The DRHP lists various risk factors that can negatively impact the business of the company, its financial position and performance. Disclosure of material risk factors forms an important part of a Draft Red Herring Prospectus. The main risk factors are the following: Dependence on Supply and Price of Raw Materials The activities of the company largely depend on the availability and price of raw materials, for instance, soybeans or crude soybean oil. Disruptions in their availability or variations in pricing can have a bad effect on the profitability of the company. Geographic Concentration The production activities of the company take place in Maharashtra; therefore, the company is faced with risks of negative developments at the regional level. Competition The company also faces competition from other manufacturers of vegetable oils and similar products. Current Litigations The Company, its subsidiary, and promoters are involved in a number of litigations, and any unfavourable outcomes can result in significant losses. Dependence on a Single Customer for Exports The company is largely dependent on a single customer, Nisshin Shokai Co. Ltd., for the export of its flakes and grits. Management and Promoters Basantlal Shankarlal Agrawal, Manoj Basantlal Agrawal, Vandana Manoj Agrawal, Shailendra Basantlal Agrawal, Alkesh Basantlal Agrawal, Omprakash Shankarlal Agrawal, Ashok Shankarlal Agrawal, and Kasim Abdul Samad Balesaria have been the promoters of the company. The DRHP has brought to the fore the promoters, their interest in the company, and their experience in the industry. Promoter, management and related disclosures form part of the wider disclosure framework governing an initial public offer and its offer documents. Financial Statements The paper explains that the DRHP contains the restated financial accounts of the company for the years ending on March 31st 2024, 2025 and 2026. These documents are compliant with the accounting standards of India. Key Financial Highlights Particulars FY 2026 (₹ in million) FY 2025 (₹ in million) FY 2024 (₹ in million) Revenue from Operations 22,115.37 18,832.99 17,449.01 EBITDA 1,321.35 1,256.73 458.68 Profit After Tax (PAT) 862.22 870.81 173.52 Total Borrowings 2,853.88 1,571.32 4,781.59 The operations revenue of the company has been increasing during the last three financial years, and the profits changed significantly in FY 2025 and FY 2026 as compared to FY 2024, and the total debt has also decreased. Financial information and restated financial statements constitute an important part of the disclosure package in an IPO. The applicable framework is discussed in detail in Guidance Note on Reports in Company Prospectuses. Outstanding Litigation The DRHP reveals that there are multiple lawsuits against the company, its subsidiary, directors, and promoters. These lawsuits include criminal and tax proceedings and other actions from statutory authorities. The total amount at stake in the lawsuits is quite large. The applicable SEBI disclosure framework specifically provides for disclosure of outstanding litigation, claims and regulatory actions in offer documents. The requirements are also reflected in the SEBI Master Circular for Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements. Key Litigations A criminal proceeding against Basantlal Shankarlal Agrawal, a promoter, in his capacity as the former director of a cooperative society, alleging misappropriation of funds. Criminal proceedings against Shailendra Basantlal Agrawal, a promoter, in his capacity as a partner of another firm, under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. Tax proceedings against the company with an aggregate amount of ₹16.79 million involved. Any adverse outcome in these litigations could have a material impact on the company’s financial condition and reputation. Regulatory Framework for the DRHP A public issue and its offer documents are governed by the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, together with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 relating to public offers, prospectus and allotment of securities. Section 32 of the Companies Act, 2013 deals specifically with a red herring prospectus. The IPO process, including the role and progression of the DRHP and other offer documents, is explained in Offer Structure & Procedure in Initial Public Offer Documents. The distinction and progression from a DRHP to a red herring prospectus and final prospectus is also discussed in DRHP to Final Prospectus: What’s Really Behind the Fine Print?. Source: SEBI – Maharashtra Oil Extractions Limited DRHP **** Disclaimer: This article has been prepared by the author solely for educational and informational purposes based on publicly available information, including the Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP) and other documents referred to herein. The views, observations and analysis expressed in the article are personal views of the author and do not necessarily reflect the views of TaxGuru. Neither the author nor TaxGuru represents or warrants the accuracy, completeness or adequacy of the information contained in the DRHP or other source documents, and TaxGuru has not independently verified the factual statements or analysis provided by the author. Nothing contained in this article constitutes investment, financial, legal, tax or other professional advice, or any recommendation, solicitation or offer to buy, sell, subscribe to or otherwise deal in any securities. Readers and prospective investors should independently examine the relevant offer documents, including the applicable risk factors, and obtain appropriate professional advice before making any investment or other decision. Neither the author nor TaxGuru shall be responsible or liable for any loss, damage or consequence arising from any action taken or decision made in reliance on this article. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under initial public offerSEBISEBI notifications Author Info Name: Kaif Kamal Qualification: Student - Others Location: Pune, Maharashtra Articles Published: 4 View full profile → More from Kaif Kamal SEBI Proposes Reforms to Improve Price Discovery in Pre-Open Auctions September 25, 2026 SEBI Simplifies Nomination Framework for Demat Accounts and Mutual Fund Folios September 25, 2026 Land Border FDI Rules Clarify Beneficial Ownership Tests Under Press Note 2 September 25, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in SEBI SEBI Proposes Reforms to Improve Price Discovery in Pre-Open Auctions September 25, 2026 SEBI Simplifies Nomination Framework for Demat Accounts and Mutual Fund Folios September 25, 2026 SEBI Board Approves Major PMS, Settlement, REIT, InvIT and Market Reforms September 24, 2026 Non-Connected Person Can Still Be Insider Through UPSI Possession: SEBI September 24, 2026 Approved Resolution Plan Bars SEBI Penalty Against Corporate Debtor: SAT Mumbai September 21, 2026 SEBI SAST Open Offer Triggers: 25%, Creeping Acquisition and Control September 21, 2026