Summary: The ICAI’s Guidance Note on Financial Statements of Non-Corporate Entities enters its universal Phase II from April 1, 2026, extending its prescribed financial statement formats to all non-corporate entities irrespective of turnover. Phase I, effective April 1, 2025, applied to non-corporate entities with turnover exceeding ₹5 crore. Phase II removes that threshold and brings entities such as sole proprietorship firms, Hindu Undivided Families, registered and unregistered partnership firms, Associations of Persons, Bodies of Individuals, Resident Welfare Associations, societies, private and public trusts, statutory corporations, autonomous bodies, authorities and other organisations engaged in business or professional activity within the reporting framework. The Guidance Note standardises the Balance Sheet through concepts such as “Owners’ Funds” and current/non-current classification, prescribes line items for the Statement of Profit & Loss, and requires detailed Notes to Accounts covering areas including capital movements, reserves, borrowings, trade payables and property, plant and equipment. The Cash Flow Statement remains optional for MSMEs under AS 3, while applicable Accounting Standards and MSME relaxations or exemptions continue. LLPs remain outside the framework and are governed separately. Certain entities continue to follow formats prescribed by specific statutes, regulators or dedicated ICAI guidance. The article highlights the practical implications of the phased rollout and identifies steps for entities transitioning into Phase II, including mapping existing books to prescribed formats, confirming MSME status, consulting auditors and updating accounting systems and templates. Table of Contents▸ ICAI's Guidance Note on Financial Statements of Non Corporate Entities Goes Universal from April 1, 2026 Quick Snapshot Who Are Non-Corporate Entities? Phase I in Brief Phase II: The Main Event What Changes on the Ground Why the Phased Rollout Makes Sense Action Points — Don't Get Caught Off Guard The Bottom Line Show all 9 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); ICAI’s Guidance Note on Financial Statements of Non Corporate Entities Goes Universal from April 1, 2026 For decades, India’s smallest businesses —Proprietorships, the family HUF, the local trust — prepared their financial statements however their accountant saw fit. No fixed format, no standard line items, no easy comparability. That era officially closes on April 1, 2026, when Phase II of the ICAI’s Guidance Note on Financial Statements of Non-Corporate Entities kicks in — bringing every non-corporate entity in India, regardless of size, under one standardised reporting umbrella. Here’s what changed, who it hits, and what to do about it. Quick Snapshot Phase I Phase II Effective from April 1, 2025 April 1, 2026 Who’s covered Turnover > ₹5 crore All non-corporate entities, any turnover Status today Already in force Now live — no size exemption left Announced via ICAI Council, 451st Meeting (Mar 30–31, 2026) Same announcement, dated March 31, 2026 Who Are Non-Corporate Entities? The Guidance Note casts a wide net: any business or professional entity that is not a company under the Companies Act and not an LLP under the LLP Act qualifies as a Non-Corporate Entity. Think of it as everything outside the corporate rulebook. Category Includes Individual-owned Sole Proprietorship firms Family-owned Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) Partnership structures Registered Partnership Firms; Unregistered Partnership Firms Association of Persons (AOP) Partnership firms not covered above; Body of Individuals; Resident Welfare Associations Registered collectives Societies registered under any law in force Trusts Private or public trusts, registered or unregistered Public-sector bodies Statutory Corporations, Autonomous Bodies and Authorities Catch-all Any other organisation engaged fully or partially in business/professional activity Exceptions to keep in mind: Where a specific statute or regulator already prescribes its own format (e.g., trusts under Maharashtra Public Trust Rules, autonomous bodies under Ministry of Finance formats), that format prevails. Entities with dedicated ICAI guidance (educational institutions, political parties, NPOs) follow that guidance instead. LLPs are excluded — being a corporate form of entity, they follow the separate Guidance Note on Financial Statements of LLPs. Phase I in Brief Phase I quietly went live on April 1, 2025, applying only to non-corporate entities crossing the ₹5 crore turnover mark. It was the “warm-up lap” — bigger players went first, ironing out formats before the rules applied to everyone. Phase II: The Main Event This is where it gets real. From accounting periods beginning April 1, 2026, the turnover threshold disappears entirely. Every non-corporate entity — the smallest proprietorship, the tiniest trust, the newest partnership — must now report using the ICAI’s prescribed formats. What Changes on the Ground Area Requirement Under Phase II Coverage Universal — no turnover-based exemption remains Balance Sheet Standardised format using “Owners’ Funds” (not “Equity”); current/non-current classification of assets & liabilities Statement of Profit & Loss Prescribed line items — Revenue, Expenses, Partners’ Remuneration, Tax, Profit/Loss Notes to Accounts Mandatory schedules — owners’ capital account movement, reserves, borrowings, trade payables (with MSME disclosures), PPE reconciliation, etc. Cash Flow Statement Still optional for MSMEs under AS 3 (encouraged, not mandatory) Accounting Standards Formats apply alongside AS — MSME relaxations/exemptions continue where eligible LLPs Not applicable — governed separately Why the Phased Rollout Makes Sense Think of it as a relay race: large, resource-rich entities ran the first leg in 2025, working out the kinks in formats and disclosures. Now, in 2026, the baton passes to everyone else — smaller entities that needed the extra year to upgrade bookkeeping systems, train staff, and align charts of accounts before the spotlight turned to them. Action Points — Don’t Get Caught Off Guard # Action Why It Matters 1 Check if your entity was outside Phase I (turnover ≤ ₹5 crore) You’re now in scope from FY 2026–27 2 Map your books to the Guidance Note’s Balance Sheet & P&L formats (Part I & II) Avoid last-minute scramble at year-end 3 Confirm your MSME classification status Determines which AS exemptions/relaxations you can still claim 4 Loop in your auditor early Ensures compliance with both AS and the new presentation formats 5 Update accounting software/templates now Smoother transition than a rushed retrofit in March 2027 The Bottom Line Phase II isn’t just a compliance footnote — it’s the moment India’s non-corporate sector, from the smallest sole proprietor to large statutory bodies, starts speaking the same financial language. Standardised formats mean better comparability, more credibility with lenders and investors, and fewer surprises for auditors. The clock has already started — make sure your books are ready. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under chartered accountantsICAIInd ASLLP Author Info Name: CA Pawan Kumar Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Pawan Kumar & Co Location: NEW DELHI, Delhi Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from CA Pawan Kumar Biometric Aadhaar Authentication Mandatory for New GST Registrations: Delhi HC September 13, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in CA, CS, CMA Service Concession Arrangements under Ind AS 115: Accounting for BOT Bus Stops September 17, 2026 Analysis of Notifications and Circulars for Week Ending 6th September 2026 September 16, 2026 ICAI Organises Convocation Across 23 Centres for 8,964 CAs September 15, 2026 Chandigarh CAs Seek Extension of Tax Audit, 10B/10BB & ITR Due Dates for AY 2026-27 September 15, 2026 UAE Corporate Tax Exempt Income: Participation, PE and Transport Rules September 13, 2026 Audit Manual 2025-2026 – Small & Medium Enterprises with Editable Formats September 11, 2026