Summary: A shareholders’ agreement is a contract entered into between two or more shareholders of a company and, in some cases, between the shareholders and the company itself. It supplements the statutory framework under the Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles of Association by recording the commercial arrangements agreed among shareholders concerning management, decision-making and the exercise of shareholder rights. Such agreements are commonly used in joint ventures, private equity investments, start-up financings and closely held companies. They typically regulate shareholding and capital contributions, corporate governance, reserved matters, transfer restrictions, pre-emptive rights, information and inspection rights, deadlock resolution, confidentiality and non-compete obligations. Transfer provisions may include lock-in clauses, rights of first refusal or first offer, tag-along rights and drag-along rights. Reserved matters can provide additional protection to minority shareholders by requiring specified approvals for significant corporate decisions. Deadlock provisions are particularly important in equal 50:50 joint ventures and may provide graduated mechanisms ranging from discussions and mediation to buy-sell arrangements, auctions, sale or winding-up. A shareholders’ agreement must remain consistent with mandatory law and should be aligned with the company’s Articles of Association. It should be tailored to the company’s ownership structure, business objectives, capital requirements and management arrangements rather than treated as a standard boilerplate document, and should be periodically reviewed as the company’s circumstances and applicable law change. Table of Contents▸ Introduction What Exactly Does a shareholders' agreement Do? How It Relates to the Articles of Association Key Clauses in a shareholders' agreement 1. Shareholding and Capital Contribution 2. Corporate Governance 3. Reserved Matters 4. Transfer of Shares 5. Pre-Emptive Rights 6. Information and Inspection Rights 7. Deadlock Resolution 8. Confidentiality and Non-Compete Conclusion Show all 13 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Every company is owned by shareholders, and those shareholders rarely have identical interests, expectations or levels of involvement in the business. The Companies Act, 2013 and the Articles of Association lay down the statutory framework for how a company must be managed, but they cannot possibly capture every commercial understanding that shareholders reach among themselves. This is precisely the gap that a shareholders’ agreement is designed to fill. Ashareholders’ agreement is a contract entered into between two or more shareholders of a company, and in some cases between the shareholders and the company itself. It records, in binding legal terms, the commercial arrangements the shareholders have agreed upon how the company will be managed, how decisions will be made, and how each party will exercise its rights as a shareholder. It is a document commonly seen in joint ventures, private equity investments, start-up financings and closely held companies, where the relationship between owners is as important as the business itself. A well-drafted shareholders’ agreement is prepared only after careful thought is given to the company’s business plan, its capital requirements, the shareholding pattern, the proposed management structure, and the disagreements that might reasonably arise in the future. It must also be consistent with applicable law and with the company’s Articles of Association. What Exactly Does a shareholders’ agreement Do? At its core, a shareholders’ agreement defines the rights, responsibilities and obligations of shareholders both towards one another and, where relevant, towards the company. It typically regulates matters such as voting rights, the appointment of directors, the transfer of shares, access to company information, the issue of new shares, the payment of dividends, and the resolution of disputes. Consider a simple illustration: two shareholders each hold 50% of a company. Left unaddressed, this equal split is a recipe for deadlock. A shareholders’ agreement steps in to specify how directors will be appointed, which decisions require the consent of both shareholders, and critically how any deadlock between them will be resolved. How It Relates to the Articles of Association The Articles of Association are the company’s internal rulebook, binding on the company and all its members. A shareholders’ agreement by contrast, is fundamentally a contract it binds the parties to it, not necessarily the company as a whole in the same statutory sense. Because of this difference in character, the Articles should be reviewed and, where necessary, amended so that the important provisions of the agreement are properly reflected in the company’s constitutional documents. Where there is any inconsistency between theshareholders’ agreement , the Articles of Association and mandatory provisions of law, the law will always prevail. For this reason, ashareholders’ agreement must be drafted only after a careful examination of the Companies Act, 2013, the rules made under it, and, where applicable, foreign exchange and securities laws. Key Clauses in a shareholders’ agreement 1. Shareholding and Capital Contribution The agreement should clearly set out the number and class of shares held by each shareholder. It should also prescribe how shareholders will contribute additional capital if and when required, and what consequences will follow if a shareholder fails to provide agreed funding. 2. Corporate Governance Governance clauses address the composition of the board of directors, the appointment and removal of directors, the conduct of board meetings, quorum requirements, notice periods, voting procedures and the scope of management’s powers. Shareholders often agree to nominate directors in proportion to their respective shareholdings. 3. Reserved Matters Reserved matters are significant decisions that cannot be taken without the approval of a specified shareholder, or a specified percentage of shareholders. These commonly include altering the Articles of Association, issuing new shares, borrowing beyond a set limit, acquiring or disposing of substantial assets, entering into related-party transactions, and changing the fundamental nature of the business. This clause is particularly valuable for minority shareholders, since it ensures that major decisions cannot be pushed through without adequate consultation. 4. Transfer of Shares Restrictions on the transfer of shares are a near-universal feature of these agreements: a) Lock-in clause– prohibits any transfer of shares for a specified period. b) Right of first refusal– allows an existing shareholder to buy shares before they are offered to an outsider. c) Right of first offer– requires the selling shareholder to first approach existing shareholders before seeking offers from third parties. d) Tag-along rights– protect minority shareholders by letting them sell their shares alongside the majority shareholder when the latter decides to sell. e) Drag-along rights– allow a majority shareholder to compel minority shareholders to sell their shares together with the majority’s stake. 5. Pre-Emptive Rights Pre-emptive rights allow existing shareholders to participate in any fresh issue of shares in proportion to their existing holding. This protects shareholders from unwanted dilution of both their ownership and their voting power. 6. Information and Inspection Rights Shareholders may be entitled to receive financial statements, budgets, business plans and compliance reports. They may also be given rights of inspection or audit, though these are usually made subject to confidentiality obligations and applicable law. 7. Deadlock Resolution A deadlock arises when shareholders cannot agree on a matter that requires their joint consent a situation especially common in equal (50:50) joint ventures. Agreements typically provide for a graduated resolution mechanism: discussions between senior representatives, followed by mediation or expert determination, and, if these fail, a buy-sell arrangement, an auction mechanism, or, as a last resort, the sale or winding-up of the business. 8. Confidentiality and Non-Compete Shareholders are usually required to keep confidential all information relating to the company’s business, customers, technology and finances. A non-compete clause may also restrict a shareholder from operating a competing business. Such restrictions must be reasonable in their duration, scope and geographical extent, and their enforceability should always be examined under applicable law. Conclusion A shareholders’ agreement is one of the most effective tools available for managing the relationship between the owners of a company and for reducing uncertainty in how that company is run. It protects investment, clarifies who holds decision-making power and when, safeguards the interests of minority shareholders, and lays down clear solutions for share transfers and deadlocks before they ever become a crisis. It should never be treated as a boilerplate, one-size-fits-all document. Every clause must be tailored to the company’s specific ownership structure, its business objectives and its funding requirements. Equally important, the agreement must be kept aligned with the Articles of Association and reviewed periodically to reflect changes in the law and in the company’s own circumstances. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013 Author Info Name: Shreya Agrawal Qualification: Student - Others Location: Surajpur, Chhattisgarh Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law NCLT Delhi Sanctions Mawana Foods Amalgamation With Mawana Sugars From 1 April 2026 September 26, 2026 Routine Service Complaints Not Pre-Existing Dispute: NCLT Kochi Admits CIRP September 26, 2026 How to Amend MOA of a Section 8 Company: Is Prior ROC Approval Needed? September 25, 2026 How to Change Name of a Section 8 Company – Steps, Forms and Restrictions September 25, 2026 Section 8 Company Object Change May Affect 12A and 80G Registration September 25, 2026 Stamp Duty on Transmission of Shares vs Transfer of Shares – Documents & Process September 25, 2026