Summary: The Supreme Court in Jamnabai and Others v. Vasudev and Others considered a dispute concerning approximately 12.41 acres of agricultural land and a residential house situated at Village Kanadia, Indore, Madhya Pradesh. The controversy arose after mutation entries in the revenue records were changed and another person’s name was reflected in those records. One side contended that the alteration of the revenue entries had effectively brought the rights of the original co-owner and subsequently his legal heirs to an end. The Supreme Court reiterated that mutation does not confer ownership and deletion of a person’s name from revenue records does not extinguish title. Revenue records are primarily maintained for fiscal purposes, including identification of the person responsible for payment of land revenue and taxes. Mutation entries can constitute supporting or rebuttable evidence but are not conclusive proof of ownership. Title must instead be established through valid title documents such as a sale deed, gift deed, partition deed, will or court decree, as applicable. Revenue authorities cannot adjudicate disputes concerning ownership, and determination of title lies within the jurisdiction of competent Civil Courts. The ruling protects genuine owners against claims based merely on revenue entries and reinforces the importance of proper title documents and title investigation in inheritance, family disputes, mortgages and loan-against-property transactions. Table of Contents▸ Background of the Case Facts of the Case Key Points of the Judgment 1. Mutation does not confer ownership 2. Mutation does not extinguish title 3. Revenue records are maintained for fiscal purposes 4. Civil Courts decide title disputes 5. Revenue entries are only rebuttable evidence Benefits of This Judgment √ Protects genuine owners √ Prevents fraudulent mutations √ Strengthens importance of registered documents √ Helpful in inheritance and family disputes √ Useful in mortgage and LAP cases Show all 14 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Background of the Case As reported in the Supreme Court’s ruling, the dispute related to approximately 12.41 acres of agricultural land and a residential house situated at Village Kanadia, Indore (Madhya Pradesh). Facts of the Case The property originally belonged to co-owners/family members. Subsequently, mutation entries in revenue records were changed, showing another person’s name in the revenue records. The dispute arose when one side claimed that, because of the revenue entries and mutation updates, the rights of the original co-owner (and thereafter his legal heirs) had effectively come to an end. The matter ultimately reached the courts regarding the actual ownership/title over the property Key Points of the Judgment 1. Mutation does not confer ownership Entry of a person’s name in revenue records is not proof of ownership. Ownership must be established through valid title documents such as Sale Deed, Gift Deed, Partition Deed, Will, Court Decree, etc. 2. Mutation does not extinguish title Deletion of a person’s name from revenue records does not result in loss of ownership rights. 3. Revenue records are maintained for fiscal purposes The purpose of mutation is to identify the person responsible for payment of land revenue and taxes. 4. Civil Courts decide title disputes Revenue authorities cannot adjudicate ownership disputes. The jurisdiction to determine title rests with competent Civil Courts. 5. Revenue entries are only rebuttable evidence Mutation entries may be considered as supporting evidence but are not conclusive proof of title. Benefits of This Judgment √ Protects genuine owners An owner does not lose ownership merely because someone else’s name is entered in revenue records. √ Prevents fraudulent mutations Fraudulent or incorrect mutation entries cannot be used to claim ownership rights. √ Strengthens importance of registered documents Registered conveyance documents continue to be the primary basis for establishing title. √ Helpful in inheritance and family disputes Legal heirs can assert ownership even if mutation has not been carried out in their favor. √ Useful in mortgage and LAP cases Banks/NBFCs cannot rely solely on mutation, Jamabandi, Khatauni, or revenue entries for title verification. Proper title documents and title investigation remain essential. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: Veenus Nagpal Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: Poonawalla Fincorp Ltd. Location: DELHI, Delhi Articles Published: 8 View full profile → More from Veenus Nagpal Unregistered Sale Agreement Can’t Confer Title via Subsequent Registration: SC June 14, 2025 Title Can’t be transferred based on General Power of Attorney and Agreement to Sell: SC December 1, 2023 Mortgagor can Redeem Usufructuary Mortgage at any Point of Time: SC April 29, 2022 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Trademark Assignment & Transmission: Procedure, Documents & Rules September 24, 2026 Karnataka HC Refuses to Quash Homebuyers’ FIRs and PMLA Proceedings Against Ozone Urbana September 24, 2026 Fixed-Tenure NHPC Employees Cannot Claim Amalgamation Absorption Benefits: Sikkim HC September 24, 2026 Election Commissioners Appointment Law Challenge Referred for Constitution Bench: SC September 24, 2026 TDS Withheld From Land Acquisition Compensation Must Be Released: Karnataka HC September 24, 2026 IRDAI Proposes Distribution Reforms to Cut Insurance Costs & Strengthen Policyholder Protection September 24, 2026