ITC and Job Work: Tax Treatment of Inputs and Capital Goods Sent Outside the Business Summary: GST law provides a specific framework for preserving Input Tax Credit (ITC) when inputs or capital goods are sent outside the principal’s premises for job work. Section 19 of the CGST Act, 2017 permits the principal to claim ITC on inputs and capital goods sent to a job worker, including cases where goods are dispatched directly by the supplier to the job worker without first reaching the principal’s premises. The statutory framework generally requires inputs to be returned or supplied from the job worker’s premises within one year and capital goods within three years, subject to the provisions of Section 143 of the CGST Act. Moulds and dies, jigs and fixtures, and tools are excluded from these deeming time limits. Goods may move between successive job workers and, subject to statutory conditions, may also be supplied directly from the job worker’s premises. Rule 45 requires prescribed documentation, principally a delivery challan, and reporting through FORM GST ITC-04. Following Notification No. 35/2021-Central Tax dated 24 September 2021, ITC-04 is furnished half-yearly where preceding-year aggregate turnover exceeds ₹5 crore and annually in other cases. Consequently, maintaining consignment-wise records of dispatch, receipt, movement, return and direct supply is essential for preserving the intended GST treatment. Table of Contents▸ 1. Introduction 2. What Exactly Is “Job Work” Under GST? 3. Section 19: The ITC Protection for Goods Sent for Job Work 4. Inputs and Capital Goods Are Treated Differently 5. Section 143: The Actual Job-Work Procedure 6. What Happens When the Time Limit Is Crossed? 7. Documentation: Why the Delivery Challan Matters 8. A Practical Example 9. Judicial Perspective 10. The Real Compliance Challenge 11. Critical Analysis 12. Conclusion Show all 12 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 1. Introduction In the manufacturing and business world, it is not unusual for a company to send its goods to another person for a particular process. A manufacturer may send metal sheets for cutting, fabric for stitching, components for assembling, or machinery for specialised processing. The person carrying out such work may not be the owner of the goods. This arrangement is commonly known as job work. From a business perspective, job work is fairly straightforward. From a GST perspective, however, the movement of goods creates several questions. If the goods have physically left the premises of the owner, can the owner still claim Input Tax Credit (ITC)? What happens when goods are sent directly to a job worker instead of first coming to the principal’s premises? How long can inputs or capital goods remain with the job worker? And what happens if the goods are not returned within the prescribed period? The GST law addresses these questions primarily through Section 19 and Section 143 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act), read with Rule 45 of the CGST Rules, 2017. The basic idea is that sending goods to a job worker for processing should not, by itself, result in the principal losing the ITC relating to those goods. At the same time, the law puts time limits and documentation requirements in place. 2. What Exactly Is “Job Work” Under GST? Section 2(68) of the CGST Act defines job work as any treatment or process undertaken by a person on goods belonging to another registered person[1]. The person sending the goods is generally referred to as the principal, while the person carrying out the treatment or process is the job worker. An important feature of this arrangement is that ownership of the goods does not pass to the job worker merely because the goods are physically moved to the job worker’s premises. CBIC has also clarified that goods sent by a registered person to a job worker, subject to the prescribed procedure, are not treated as a supply merely because they have been sent for job work[2]. For example, suppose A Ltd. manufactures automobile components and sends certain components to B Engineering for specialised machining. The components continue to belong to A Ltd. B Engineering is carrying out a process on those goods; it does not become their owner merely because the goods are in its possession. 3. Section 19: The ITC Protection for Goods Sent for Job Work The most important provision for the present discussion is Section 19 of the CGST Act. Section 19(1) provides that the principal is entitled, subject to prescribed conditions and restrictions, to claim ITC on inputs sent to a job worker for job work[3]. Section 19(2) is particularly useful because it allows the principal to claim ITC even where inputs are sent directly to the job worker without first being brought to the principal’s own place of business. The same principle applies to capital goods. Under Section 19(4) and (5), the principal can claim ITC on capital goods sent to a job worker, including where those goods are sent directly to the job worker[4]. This is commercially significant. A manufacturer may purchase a specialised machine and have it delivered directly to a specialised job worker rather than moving it first to its own factory. The GST framework accommodates this type of business arrangement. 4. Inputs and Capital Goods Are Treated Differently Although Section 19 covers both inputs and capital goods, the law does not give them identical time limits. For inputs, Section 19(3) provides a period of one year. If the inputs are not received back by the principal or are not supplied from the job worker’s premises in accordance with Section 143 within that period, they are deemed to have been supplied by the principal to the job worker on the date on which they were originally sent[5]. For capital goods, the corresponding period is three years under Section 19(6). There is, however, an exception for moulds and dies, jigs and fixtures, and tools sent to a job worker. The one-year and three-year deeming provisions do not apply to these items[6]. Where inputs or capital goods are sent directly to the job worker, the statutory period is counted from the date on which the job worker receives the goods. This makes the date of receipt important for maintaining a proper compliance trail. 5. Section 143: The Actual Job-Work Procedure Section 143 complements Section 19. It allows a registered person, subject to the prescribed procedure, to send inputs or capital goods to a job worker without payment of tax. The goods can also be sent from the first job worker to another job worker where further processing is required[7]. After completion of the job work, the principal may bring the goods back to any of its places of business within the prescribed period. Alternatively, the goods may be supplied directly from the place of business or premises of the job worker, subject to the conditions in Section 143[8]. This is useful in modern supply chains. For example, a manufacturer in Punjab may send goods to a specialised processor in Gujarat and have the processed goods supplied directly from the processor to a customer. Requiring the goods to return to Punjab first could create additional transportation and compliance costs without serving a clear commercial purpose. 6. What Happens When the Time Limit Is Crossed? The one-year period for inputs and three-year period for capital goods are not merely administrative deadlines. If the prescribed conditions are not fulfilled, Section 143 creates a deeming fiction. Where inputs are not returned or supplied in accordance with the statutory procedure within one year, they are deemed to have been supplied by the principal to the job worker on the date on which the inputs were originally sent. The same principle applies to capital goods after three years. For example, if A Ltd. sends inputs worth ₹10 lakh to a job worker on 1 April 2026 and the inputs are neither returned nor dealt with in accordance with Section 143 within the prescribed period, the law can treat A Ltd. as having supplied those inputs to the job worker from the original date of dispatch. This is why businesses need systems that track the date of dispatch, quantity, location and eventual return or supply of every consignment. 7. Documentation: Why the Delivery Challan Matters Rule 45 of the CGST Rules provides that inputs, semi-finished goods or capital goods sent to a job worker must generally move under a challan issued by the principal. The challan provides documentary evidence of the movement and must contain the prescribed particulars[9]. The details of challans relating to goods dispatched to or received from job workers are required to be reported in FORM GST ITC-04. The frequency depends on the principal’s aggregate turnover in the preceding financial year. For principals whose turnover exceeds ₹5 crore, the specified period is six months; for other principals, it is the financial year[10]. This change was introduced through Notification No. 35/2021-Central Tax dated 24 September 2021, with effect from 1 October 2021. In practice, ITC-04 should not be treated as a formality. The information reported should be capable of being reconciled with the challans and the actual movement of goods[11]. 8. A Practical Example ABC Motors Ltd. purchases steel components on which GST of ₹1,80,000 is charged and is eligible to claim the corresponding ITC. Instead of processing the components itself, ABC Motors sends them to XYZ Engineering, a job worker. ABC Motors can continue to claim the ITC even though the components have been sent to XYZ Engineering. If the components were sent directly by the original supplier to XYZ Engineering, Section 19(2) also permits the principal to claim the credit despite the goods not first reaching ABC Motors’ premises. The goods should move under the prescribed documentation, including the relevant challan, and ABC Motors must maintain proper records. If the inputs are returned within one year, the normal job-work procedure continues. If they are not returned or otherwise dealt with in accordance with Section 143 within the prescribed period, the deeming provision becomes relevant. 9. Judicial Perspective The broader approach of the courts towards GST input tax credit is also relevant. In JCB India Ltd. v. Union of India, the Bombay High Court considered the nature of input tax credit under the GST framework while examining transitional credit provisions[12]. The Court observed that input tax credit under the CGST Act is subject to the conditions and restrictions contained in the statute. The decision did not itself determine the substantive job-work question, but it is useful for understanding the larger principle that ITC has to be claimed within the framework created by legislation. The Court also referred to Section 19 as the provision dealing with ITC on inputs and capital goods sent for job work. For job-work transactions, the practical point is that commercial ownership of the goods is not the only consideration. The statutory requirements concerning movement, documentation, records and prescribed time limits must also be followed. 10. The Real Compliance Challenge On paper, the provisions relating to job work are reasonably clear. In practice, the problem often begins with record keeping. Large manufacturers may have many consignments with different job workers at the same time. Some may be returned after processing, some may move to another job worker and some may be supplied directly to customers. A practical job-work control system should therefore track the date of dispatch, description and quantity of goods, challan number, details of the job worker, whether the goods are inputs or capital goods, movement between job workers, date of return, direct supply from the job worker’s premises and the applicable one-year or three-year deadline. This is particularly important where goods are sent directly to a job worker because the statutory period is counted from the date of receipt by the job worker. The accounts, logistics and tax teams therefore need to work from the same records. 11. Critical Analysis The job-work provisions under GST attempt to strike a balance between commercial convenience and tax control. On one hand, the law recognises that modern businesses do not necessarily carry out every manufacturing process under one roof. Allowing ITC even when goods are sent to a job worker, including direct movement to the job worker, accommodates legitimate business structures. On the other hand, the one-year and three-year limits prevent goods from remaining indefinitely outside the principal’s recorded business operations without tax consequences. The ITC-04 mechanism also provides a compliance trail. The important lesson is that the benefit under Section 19 should not be viewed separately from the compliance requirements under Section 143 and Rule 45. Claiming ITC may be legally permissible, but retaining the intended tax treatment requires the taxpayer to follow the accompanying procedure. 12. Conclusion Job work is an important part of India’s manufacturing and business ecosystem, and GST law recognises this reality through a specific statutory framework. Section 19 protects the principal’s entitlement to ITC on inputs and capital goods sent for job work, including situations where the goods are sent directly to the job worker. Section 143 provides the mechanism for movement and return or supply of those goods, while Rule 45 lays down important procedural requirements, particularly regarding challans and ITC-04. The one-year period for inputs and three-year period for capital goods are particularly important because failure to comply can result in the goods being deemed to have been supplied to the job worker from the original date of dispatch. Ultimately, tax treatment cannot be separated from compliance. A business may have a genuine commercial reason for sending goods outside its premises, but it must still be able to demonstrate where those goods went, when they went there and what eventually happened to them. For a taxpayer, the practical approach is straightforward: claim the credit where the law permits it, but maintain the records needed to establish why that credit remains legally available. [1] Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, § 2(68). [2] Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, Sectoral FAQs on GST, discussion concerning job work and movement of goods for job work. [3] Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, § 19(1)–(2). [4] Id. § 19(4)–(5). [5] Id. § 19(3). [6] Id. § 19(6)–(7). [7] Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, § 143(1)–(2). [8] Id. § 143(3)–(4). [9] Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, r. 45(1)–(2). [10] Id. r. 45(3); Goods and Services Tax Council, 45th GST Council Meeting, discussion concerning the revised filing frequency for FORM GST ITC-04. [11] Notification No. 35/2021-Central Tax, Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, dated 24 September 2021, amending Rule 45(3) with effect from 1 October 2021. [12] JCB India Ltd. v. Union of India, 2018 SCC Online Bom 997, Writ Petition No. 3142 of 2017 (Bom. H.C., decided 20 March 2018). Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTinput tax credit Author Info Name: Bhanu pratap ohri Qualification: Student - Others Location: Jalandhar, Punjab Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Bhanu pratap ohri Constitutional Basis of Taxation in India: An Analysis of Articles 265, 246 February 25, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax No GST Recovery During Section 67 Search Proceedings: Gujarat HC September 21, 2026 SC Issues Notice on GST Liability of Cross-LoC Barter Trade September 21, 2026 Single Section 74 SCN for Multiple Financial Years Invalid: Calcutta HC September 21, 2026 IBC Resolution Plan Extinguishes MVAT Dues & Requires Pre-Deposit Refund: Bombay HC September 21, 2026 Uncommunicated Arrest: Liberty and Section 69 of CGST Act, 2017 September 21, 2026 GST Claims Under IBC: Rainbow Papers Conflict Resolved by Amendment September 21, 2026