Summary: The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) on 7 October 2026 increased the policy repo rate by 25 basis points to 5.50%, marking the first rate hike since February 2023, as inflation risks increased amid elevated crude oil prices and global uncertainty. The MPC also shifted its monetary policy stance from “neutral” to “calibrated tightening”. At the same time, the RBI raised its real GDP growth projection for FY 2026-27 by 40 basis points to 7.1%, reflecting resilient domestic economic activity, while increasing its CPI inflation projection to 5.2%. Fixed-income and NBFC industry leaders broadly see the policy as a prudent response to changing macroeconomic conditions, though its implications differ across markets. HDFC AMC believes substantial tightening is already reflected in bond valuations and remains constructive on Indian fixed income over the medium to long term. Muthoot Finance sees strong growth and credit demand continuing but emphasises the need for NBFCs to sharpen their focus on funding, liquidity and balance-sheet discipline. Table of Contents▸ RBI Raises Repo Rate by 25 Basis Points to 5.50% RBI Raises FY 2026-27 Growth Forecast to 7.1% Inflation Projection Raised to 5.2% HDFC AMC: Significant Tightening Already Reflected in Bond Valuations What RBI Policy Means for Bond and Fixed-Income Markets Muthoot Finance: NBFCs Must Focus on Funding and Liquidity Impact of Repo Rate Hike on NBFCs and Borrowing Costs Borrowers May Face Higher Loan Rates and EMIs Depositors Could Benefit from Higher Interest Rates Key Risks to RBI's Monetary Policy Outlook Growth Remains Strong Despite Monetary Tightening Conclusion Show all 12 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); RBI Raises Repo Rate by 25 Basis Points to 5.50% The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has entered a new phase of monetary policy tightening, with the Monetary Policy Committee raising the policy repo rate by 25 basis points from 5.25% to 5.50% at its October 2026 meeting. The increase is significant because it is the RBI’s first repo-rate hike since February 2023 and comes against the backdrop of renewed inflationary pressures, elevated crude oil prices, geopolitical uncertainty and firm global bond yields. The MPC unanimously voted for the 25-basis-point rate increase. It also changed the monetary policy stance from “neutral” to “calibrated tightening”, with the stance decision supported by a 4-2 majority. The Standing Deposit Facility (SDF) rate consequently stands at 5.25%, while the Marginal Standing Facility (MSF) rate and Bank Rate stand at 5.75%. RBI Raises FY 2026-27 Growth Forecast to 7.1% The rate hike has come alongside a stronger assessment of India’s economic growth prospects. The RBI raised its real GDP growth projection for FY 2026-27 to 7.1% from 6.7%, representing an upward revision of 40 basis points. The combination of higher interest rates and an upgraded growth forecast indicates that the RBI currently sees sufficient strength in domestic economic activity to absorb a moderate tightening in financial conditions. For businesses and financial markets, this is an important distinction. The policy tightening is being undertaken primarily against emerging inflation risks rather than in response to weakness in economic activity. Inflation Projection Raised to 5.2% Inflation has emerged as the principal reason for the change in the monetary policy direction. The RBI increased its CPI inflation projection for FY 2026-27 to 5.2%. Rising international crude oil prices, food-price pressures, weather-related risks and geopolitical developments have complicated the inflation outlook. The change to “calibrated tightening” therefore gives the RBI greater flexibility to respond if inflationary pressures become broader or more persistent. At the same time, the expression “calibrated” is important. It does not by itself imply a predetermined series of aggressive rate increases. Future policy decisions will continue to depend upon the evolving inflation-growth balance and domestic and global financial conditions. HDFC AMC: Significant Tightening Already Reflected in Bond Valuations Commenting on the RBI’s MPC decision, Mr. Anil Bamboli, Head, Fixed Income of HDFC Asset Management Company Limited (HDFC AMC), said: “In an environment marked by elevated oil prices, firm global yields, and persistent geopolitical tensions in West Asia, alongside robust domestic growth momentum and an uptick in inflation, the RBI has acted prudently by raising the policy rate by 25 bps and shifting its stance to calibrated tightening. While the rate hike was broadly anticipated, markets were divided on the likelihood of a stance change. Although, change in stance is being perceived as slightly hawkish tilt to policy, we believe it is done to retain policy flexibility to react to evolving global / geopolitical events and not necessarily indicate an aggressive rate hike cycle. A constructive element in the policy was the absence of liquidity measures such as OMOs or CRR adjustments. The upward revisions of 40 bps to growth and 20 bps to inflation were largely aligned with consensus. Additionally, strong FCNR(B) inflows, resilient exports, and improved FDI trends have helped ease external-sector concerns and supported the INR. Since the August policy, the Indian 10-year benchmark yield has already risen by approximately 50 bps, effectively pricing in a significant portion of RBI’s tightening as well as higher US yields. With the spread between the 1-year OIS and the 10-year G-sec now near the long-term average of ~100 bps, a substantial amount of negative information is already reflected in valuations. We therefore remain constructive on Indian fixed-income markets from a medium-to-long-term perspective, while acknowledging that a sharp further rise in crude prices or additional increases in US Treasury yields remain key risks.” What RBI Policy Means for Bond and Fixed-Income Markets The immediate implication of a repo-rate increase is generally upward pressure on interest rates and bond yields. However, market impact depends considerably on how much tightening investors had already anticipated. HDFC AMC’s assessment highlights this distinction. If the benchmark 10-year government-security yield had already risen substantially since the previous policy, part of the expected tightening would already be incorporated into bond prices. The absence of additional liquidity-tightening measures such as an increase in the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) or liquidity absorption through other extraordinary measures may also be relevant for fixed-income markets. For debt investors, the trajectory of crude oil prices, US Treasury yields, domestic inflation and the RBI’s subsequent policy decisions will remain important determinants of yields and duration strategy. Muthoot Finance: NBFCs Must Focus on Funding and Liquidity Commenting on the monetary policy announcement, Mr. George Alexander Muthoot, Executive Vice Chairman, Muthoot Finance, said: “The RBI’s policy action reflects an important shift in the macro environment: inflation risks have become less benign, but India’s underlying growth momentum remains strong. The 7.1% growth outlook, resilient consumption and continued strength in credit demand suggest that the economy has the capacity to navigate tighter financial conditions. For NBFCs, the implication is less about a slowdown in credit and more about becoming sharper on funding, liquidity and the quality of growth. As global uncertainties, energy prices and weather-related risks play out, disciplined balance-sheet management will be critical to sustaining this momentum while ensuring that credit continues to reach households, entrepreneurs and businesses productively.” Impact of Repo Rate Hike on NBFCs and Borrowing Costs For NBFCs, a tightening monetary-policy cycle can have a more direct commercial impact through the cost of funds. An increase in benchmark interest rates can eventually raise borrowing costs across bank loans, market borrowings and other funding channels. The extent and timing of transmission will vary depending on the funding profile, maturity structure, credit rating and asset-liability position of individual NBFCs. The commercial challenge is therefore not merely whether credit demand remains strong. NBFCs must manage the spread between their incremental borrowing costs and lending yields while maintaining asset quality and adequate liquidity. Entities with diversified funding sources, prudent asset-liability management and liquidity risk management and the ability to appropriately reprice their loan books may be better positioned to navigate a higher-rate environment. Borrowers May Face Higher Loan Rates and EMIs The 25-basis-point repo-rate hike can also affect retail and corporate borrowers as banks and other lenders reassess lending rates. Borrowers with loans directly linked to external benchmarks may experience faster transmission, depending upon their contractual reset dates. Home, vehicle, personal and business loans could therefore become more expensive where lenders pass through the increase. The actual EMI impact will depend upon the outstanding principal, remaining tenure, interest-rate structure and the manner in which the lender implements the rate revision. Some lenders may increase the EMI, while others may initially extend the loan tenure, subject to applicable regulatory and contractual requirements. Depositors Could Benefit from Higher Interest Rates A tightening interest-rate environment may, on the other hand, gradually improve returns available to depositors. Banks and other deposit-taking institutions may revise deposit rates depending upon their liquidity requirements, funding strategy and competitive conditions. Transmission to deposit rates is neither automatic nor uniform, but a sustained higher-rate environment generally improves the possibility of better returns on new or renewed fixed deposits. Existing fixed-rate deposits would ordinarily continue at their contracted rates until maturity. Key Risks to RBI’s Monetary Policy Outlook The future policy trajectory is likely to depend substantially upon inflation and external developments. Crude oil represents a particularly important risk for India because a sustained increase can affect inflation, the current account, the rupee and input costs across the economy. Higher US Treasury yields and changes in global monetary conditions can similarly influence capital flows, domestic bond yields and currency markets. Weather-related disruptions and food inflation also remain relevant to the domestic inflation outlook. Consequently, the shift to calibrated tightening provides the RBI with room to respond to changing conditions without committing in advance to a fixed sequence of rate increases. Growth Remains Strong Despite Monetary Tightening A notable feature of the October 2026 policy is the coexistence of monetary tightening with an upward revision in the growth forecast. The RBI’s 7.1% real GDP growth projection for FY 2026-27 suggests that domestic demand and economic activity remain sufficiently resilient even as inflation risks require a tighter monetary response. This creates a different operating environment for banks and NBFCs from a conventional slowdown-driven credit cycle. Credit demand may remain healthy, but lenders will need to pay closer attention to funding costs, pricing discipline, liquidity, leverage and asset quality. For fixed-income investors, meanwhile, higher yields may gradually improve prospective accrual opportunities, although mark-to-market volatility can persist if crude prices, global yields or domestic inflation rise further. Conclusion The October 2026 MPC decision represents an important change in India’s monetary-policy cycle. By raising the repo rate by 25 basis points to 5.50% and moving from a neutral stance to calibrated tightening, the RBI has signalled increased concern about inflation while retaining flexibility over the pace and extent of any further tightening. At the same time, the upward revision of the FY 2026-27 GDP growth forecast to 7.1% indicates confidence in the resilience of the Indian economy. The implications will vary across market participants. Bond investors must assess how much tightening is already reflected in yields; NBFCs will need to manage funding costs, liquidity and margins more carefully; borrowers could face higher lending rates; and depositors may benefit from improved rates on fresh deposits. The central issue going forward will therefore be whether inflationary pressures moderate sufficiently to allow the RBI to pause or whether crude oil, global yields and domestic price pressures necessitate further monetary tightening. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,220 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi FAST-DS 2026 Form 1 Filing Guide: Foreign Asset Disclosure, ₹1 Crore/₹5 Crore Limits & Payment October 7, 2026 No Ruling Pronounced: CAAR Delhi Allows Withdrawal of Apple’s IC Module Applications October 7, 2026 Die-Cut Battery Tape Under CTI 85079090; Rolls Under 39191000: CAAR Delhi October 7, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Fema / RBI RBI NRD-CSR (R012) Submission under CIMS Sankalan Portal October 7, 2026 RBI Removes Remittance Limits for Online Form A2; Board-Approved Guidelines Required October 7, 2026 FEMA Compliance for Foreign Investment in Indian Businesses: Complete Guide October 7, 2026 Export Declaration Form (EDF) for Services: New FEMA Declaration from 1 October 2026 October 4, 2026 RBI’s Expected Credit Loss Framework: A New Era of Forward-Looking Provisioning from April 2027 October 4, 2026 FEMA Export-Import Regulations 2026: Key Changes Effective 1 October 2026 October 4, 2026