SARFAESI Auction Is Not Just a Sale: Why Procedural Compliance Can Decide the Validity of the Entire Transaction Summary: A bank auction conducted under the SARFAESI Act, 2002 ordinarily enjoys substantial finality once the sale has been lawfully completed and confirmed, but that protection does not cure serious illegality in the auction process. Banks exercising statutory recovery powers must comply with the safeguards governing valuation, reserve price, notice, payment and sale certification under the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002. The Supreme Court has distinguished between material irregularities that go to the root of an auction and minor procedural slips that cause no real prejudice. Decisions including Sanjay Sharma v. Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar and Celir LLP v. Bafna Motors (Mumbai) Pvt. Ltd. explain the importance of lawful procedure, the borrower’s redemption rights and the protection available to bona fide auction purchasers. More recent decisions in Sterling Holiday Resorts Limited v. M/s P.M. Associates & Ors. and E. Muthurathinasabathy & Ors. v. M/s Sri International & Ors. demonstrate circumstances in which serious defects can prevent an auction from attaining finality, whereas Lakshmi Mohan v. Airtech Projects Engineers Pvt. Ltd. illustrates substantial compliance in relation to a minor payment shortfall. Challenges to SARFAESI measures ordinarily lie before the Debts Recovery Tribunal under Section 17, with an appeal to the DRAT under Section 18, while Section 34 restricts civil-court intervention. Table of Contents▸ Introduction How a SARFAESI Auction Works When can the borrower save the property? Where to complain? III. The Main Test: Serious Defect or Minor Slip? Rules That Cannot Be Ignored: Notice and the Chance to Repay When a Mistake Cancels the Sale: Two Recent Cases When a Mistake Does Not Cancel the Sale VII. What Happens When an Auction Is Cancelled? VIII. How to Challenge an Auction Conclusion References Show all 12 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction When you take a loan from a bank and give your house, shop or land as security, the bank gets a right over that property. If you stop repaying, a law called the SARFAESI Act, 2002 allows the bank to take over the property and sell it by public auction — without first going to a court. The detailed steps the bank must follow are set out in the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002. Because the bank acts on its own, without a judge checking each step, the law makes it follow a strict process. The property must be valued, a minimum price (called the “reserve price”) must be fixed, proper notice must be given to the borrower, and the buyer’s money must be collected on time. Once an auction is completed and confirmed, courts are usually slow to cancel it. A person who honestly buys the property needs to be sure that the sale will not be undone years later. But what if the bank made a mistake while conducting the auction? Does every mistake cancel the sale? The courts’ answer is no — only serious mistakes do. Small slips that cause no real harm will not cancel the sale. On 1 October 2026, the Supreme Court cancelled the auction sale of a resort in Ooty that had been defended for years. The Court put it simply: a sale is protected only when it is lawful — “sanctity is the reward of legality, not a substitute for it.” How a SARFAESI Auction Works In simple terms, the process runs like this: Notice to repay: If the borrower defaults, the bank first sends a notice under Section 13(2), giving the borrower 60 days to clear the dues. Taking possession: If the dues are still not paid, the bank can take possession of the property under Section 13(4). Valuation and reserve price: Before the sale, the property must be valued afresh and a reserve price — the minimum price below which it should not be sold — must be fixed (Rule 8). 30 days’ notice of sale: The borrower must get at least 30 clear days’ notice of the auction, stating the date, place and reserve price. The notice must also be published in two newspapers, one of them in the local language (Rule 8(6)). Payment by the buyer: The highest bidder must pay 25% of the price immediately. The balance must normally be paid within 15 days. This time can be extended by agreement, but not beyond three months in all (Rule 9). Sale certificate: The buyer gets a sale certificate only after the full price has been paid (Rule 9). When can the borrower save the property? Earlier, a borrower could pay off the full dues and get the property back at any time until the sale was actually completed. After a change in the law in 2016, this right ends much earlier — as soon as the bank publishes the auction notice (Section 13(8)). Where to complain? A borrower, or anyone else affected, who is unhappy with the bank’s action — including the auction — must approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal (DRT) under Section 17, normally within 45 days. An ordinary civil court cannot hear such a case (Section 34). III. The Main Test: Serious Defect or Minor Slip? In Sanjay Sharma v. Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. (decided on 8 January 2025), the Supreme Court explained the basic rule. An auction sale can be set aside only if there is a serious irregularity or illegality in the way the auction was held, or if the auction was affected by fraud or collusion (a secret understanding between the parties). A small procedural mistake, by itself, is not enough. The reason is practical. If every small slip could cancel a sale, nobody would dare to buy property at a bank auction, and the whole system would get stuck in endless court cases. So the real question in every case is: did the mistake cause real harm? For example, did it take away the borrower’s fair chance to save the property, make the bidding unfair, or let the wrong person end up with the property? If yes, the sale can be cancelled. If the mistake was only technical and the purpose of the rule was still served, the sale will usually stand. Rules That Cannot Be Ignored: Notice and the Chance to Repay Some rules are so important that breaking them will usually ruin the sale. The most important are the 30 days’ notice to the borrower and the borrower’s chance to clear the dues and save the property. In Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar (2014), decided before the 2016 change in the law, the Supreme Court said that giving the borrower a real chance to repay and save the property is not a mere formality. Because the bank had not followed the notice rules properly — including giving proper details of the reserve price — the sale was cancelled, even though someone else had already been declared the winning bidder. In Celir LLP v. Bafna Motors (Mumbai) Pvt. Ltd. (21 September 2023), the Supreme Court applied the 2016 change and held that the borrower’s right to save the property now ends once the auction notice is published. But the auction and the notice must still be lawful. The Court also made it clear that once a sale is confirmed and the buyer has paid in full, the bank cannot later strike a private deal with the borrower to undo it. In other words, the rules protect the borrower before the sale, and they protect the honest buyer after it. When a Mistake Cancels the Sale: Two Recent Cases The first case is Sterling Holiday Resorts Limited v. M/s P.M. Associates & Ors. (1 October 2026). Here, the lender, IFCI Limited, auctioned a mortgaged resort in Ooty. The Supreme Court cancelled the sale because of three serious mistakes: Ignoring a stop order: The bank went ahead with the auction even though the Debts Recovery Appellate Tribunal had ordered it not to, after the borrower had deposited money with the Tribunal. The Court said that a bid received in breach of such an order cannot be the basis of a valid sale. Short notice: The borrower did not get the full 30 days’ notice. Once the period covered by the stop order was left out, only 17 days of notice remained — yet the bank opened the bids and issued the sale certificate. Wrong buyer: The sale certificate was issued to a partnership firm that had not made the bid and did not even exist on the date of the auction. Since the sale broke both the Rules and the terms of the bank’s own auction notice, the later confirmation of the sale could not save it. The second case is E. Muthurathinasabathy & Ors. v. M/s Sri International & Ors. (2 April 2026). Here, the sale could not be confirmed for about 15 months because the matter kept moving between the DRT, the Appellate Tribunal and the High Court. That is far longer than the three-month maximum allowed for paying the balance price. In the meantime, the borrower paid off the entire loan. The Supreme Court held that the sale was still incomplete, that the delay was caused by the court cases and not by the borrower, and that taking away the property of a borrower who had already repaid in full would be unfair. The purpose of the law is to recover dues lawfully — not simply to complete a sale at any cost. When a Mistake Does Not Cancel the Sale Not every slip is fatal. In Lakshmi Mohan (Dead) Through LRs. & Anr. v. M/s Airtech Projects Engineers Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. (2026), the winning bidders paid an advance (earnest money) that was Rs. 35,000 less than the amount stated in the auction notice. They paid the shortfall the very next day, so their total deposit reached the required 25% of the bid amount. The Supreme Court refused to cancel the sale. It applied the idea of “substantial compliance” — meaning the bidder had, in substance, done what the rule required. The shortfall was small, it was made good quickly, and it caused no harm to the borrower or to any other bidder. The lesson is that the Rules are not a checklist where every tiny slip can be used, years later, to undo a completed sale. VII. What Happens When an Auction Is Cancelled? The effect depends on who you are: The borrower gets back the right to deal with the property, but still owes the loan along with interest and costs. Unless the dues have already been paid (as in the Muthurathinasabathy case), the bank will usually start the recovery process again, often with a fresh auction. The buyer does not get to keep the property, but is not left empty-handed. As DRTs have held in cases where property was sold below the reserve price without proper consent, the buyer is generally entitled to a refund of the money paid, with interest — but cannot insist on the sale going through. The risk of a badly conducted auction falls on the bank, not on the honest buyer. The bank has to restart the recovery process from the point where it went wrong, may have to pay interest on the buyer’s refund, and, if such mistakes keep happening, its officers may face scrutiny. VIII. How to Challenge an Auction If you want to challenge a bank auction, keep these points in mind: Go to the DRT: The main remedy is an application to the Debts Recovery Tribunal under Section 17, normally within 45 days. The 45 days are counted from when you actually came to know of the bank’s action, not merely from the date of a formal letter. This matters because many borrowers learn about a sale only after it is over. No civil suit: You cannot file an ordinary civil case against the bank’s action (Section 34). High Court only in rare cases: The High Court will usually not hear a writ petition under Article 226 when the DRT remedy is available (United Bank of India v. Satyawati Tondon, 2010). It may step in only in rare cases — for example, where the bank had no power at all to use the Act, or where basic fairness (natural justice) was clearly denied and the DRT cannot set it right. Appeal: If you lose before the DRT, you can appeal to the Debts Recovery Appellate Tribunal under Section 18. But you normally have to deposit 50% of the amount claimed first; the Appellate Tribunal can reduce this to 25%, after recording its reasons. Practical tip: Whether you are a borrower trying to stop a sale or a buyer defending one, the key question is the same — was the mistake a serious one that went to the root of the sale (as in Mathew Varghese, Celir LLP, Sterling Holiday Resorts and E. Muthurathinasabathy), or only a minor technical slip (as in Lakshmi Mohan)? The answer to this question usually decides the case. Conclusion In short, a confirmed bank auction is strong and will not be cancelled for every small mistake. But it is protected only if it was held lawfully. A sale that ignores a stop order, cuts short the 30 days’ notice, denies the borrower a fair chance to repay, or hands the property to someone other than the real bidder will not survive — no matter how many years have passed. For banks, the message is clear: treat the auction rules as essential, not as mere paperwork. For borrowers and buyers, the message is equally clear: know the rules, act quickly, and approach the DRT on time. References Sterling Holiday Resorts Limited v. M/s P.M. Associates & Ors., 2026 INSC 1071, Supreme Court (1 October 2026) Muthurathinasabathy & Ors. v. M/s Sri International & Ors., 2026 INSC 303, Supreme Court (2 April 2026) Lakshmi Mohan (Dead) Through LRs. & Anr. v. M/s Airtech Projects Engineers Pvt. Ltd. & Anr., Supreme Court (2026) Sanjay Sharma v. Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd., 2024 LiveLaw (SC) 1054 (8 January 2025) Celir LLP v. Bafna Motors (Mumbai) Pvt. Ltd. & Ors., 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1209 (21 September 2023) Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar, (2014) 5 SCC 610 United Bank of India v. Satyawati Tondon, (2010) 8 SCC 110 Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002, Rules 8 and 9 Sections 13(4), 13(8), 17, 18 and 34 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under SARFAESI Act Author Info Name: Khanindra Das Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: Advocate & CS | Civil, Corporate & Taxation Matters | Customs, International Trade | IBC | Compliance & Contracts | High Court Practitioner Location: Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 37 View full profile → More from Khanindra Das GST on Transfer of Leasehold Rights In Industrial Land: Is The Question Really Settled? October 4, 2026 Fake ITC Allegations under GST: Evidence, Consequences & Legal Remedies for Bona Fide Purchaser October 4, 2026 Supplier GST Default Cannot Automatically Deny Bona Fide Buyer’s ITC September 27, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law NCLT Cannot Disturb Concluded IBC Auction for Subsequent Higher Offer: NCLAT October 5, 2026 Madras HC Quashes Section 153B Search Assessments as Time-Barred After TOLA Computation October 5, 2026 Delhi HC Grants PMLA Bail After Applicant Crosses Half of Maximum Sentence October 5, 2026 NCLAT Directs NCLT to Decide Intervention Plea Before Section 7 Petition October 5, 2026 Ammonia Gas Storage Tank Integral to Plant Not Taxable as Building: Punjab & Haryana HC October 5, 2026 Subsequent Larger Bench Judgment Not Ground for Review: Supreme Court October 5, 2026