Summary: The blog explains the practical process of customs valuation in India, beginning with the imported value and moving towards the final calculation of customs duty. It discusses Section 14 of the Customs Act, 1962 and the Customs Valuation Rules, 2007, including the concept of transaction value, additions under Rule 10, and situations where the declared value may be questioned. A practical example is used to calculate the assessable value, Basic Customs Duty (BCD), Social Welfare Surcharge (SWS), and IGST, followed by a discussion of valuation disputes and the practical difficulties faced by importers. The blog concludes by highlighting the importance of accurate valuation and proper documentation in ensuring correct customs compliance. Table of Contents▸ Introduction The Legal Starting Point: Section 14 of the Customs Act, 1962 Transaction Value and the Valuation Rules What Has to Be Added to the Imported Value? A Practical Example: From Invoice Value to Assessable Value Calculation of Customs Duty 1. Basic Customs Duty (BCD) 2. Social Welfare Surcharge (SWS) 3. IGST on Import What if Customs Does Not Accept the Declared Value? Practical Difficulties Faced by Importers Critical Discussion Conclusion and Suggestions References Show all 14 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction When goods enter India from another country, the amount paid to the foreign seller is only the starting point for calculating customs duty. An importer may look at the commercial invoice and think that the invoice amount is the value on which duty will be charged. In practice, customs valuation is a little more detailed. The law requires the value of imported goods to be determined in a particular manner, and certain costs may have to be added before customs duty is calculated. This becomes important because a small difference in the assessable value can affect the entire duty liability. For a business importing machinery, electronic equipment, raw materials or finished products, customs valuation is therefore not just a procedural formality. It directly affects the cost of bringing the goods into India. The Customs Act, 1962, together with the Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Imported Goods) Rules, 2007, provides the framework for this process. Section 14 of the Customs Act lays down the basic principle of valuation, while the Valuation Rules explain how that value is to be determined. This blog explains the process through a simple import transaction and then examines what happens when the declared value cannot be accepted by Customs. The Legal Starting Point: Section 14 of the Customs Act, 1962 Section 14 of the Customs Act, 1962 is the main provision dealing with valuation of imported goods. Broadly, where goods are sold for export to India, their value is the transaction value, meaning the price actually paid or payable, subject to the conditions and adjustments prescribed by law. The provision also recognises that amounts such as transportation, insurance, loading, unloading and handling may have to be included in the value in the manner specified by the Valuation Rules. The important point here is that customs valuation is not automatically the same as the figure appearing on an invoice. Transaction Value and the Valuation Rules Rule 3 of the Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Imported Goods) Rules, 2007 gives primary importance to the transaction value. Subject to Rule 12, the value of imported goods is the transaction value adjusted in accordance with Rule 10. Where this method cannot be applied, the Rules provide a sequential system under Rules 4 to 9. This sequence is important. Customs cannot simply replace an importer’s declared price with an arbitrary figure because another price appears higher. In Eicher Tractors Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs, the Supreme Court emphasised the importance of the price actually paid or payable for the particular transaction and held that the subsequent valuation methods become relevant only when the transaction value is not acceptable under the Rules. At the same time, transaction value is not an absolute rule. Rule 12 allows the proper officer to question the declared value when there is a reasonable doubt about its truth or accuracy. The importer may be asked to provide further information or documents. If the doubt remains after the prescribed process, the declared value may be rejected and the value is then determined sequentially under Rules 4 to 9. What Has to Be Added to the Imported Value? Rule 10 is particularly relevant in a practical calculation. Certain costs and services have to be added to the price actually paid or payable where they are not already included. These can include commissions and brokerage other than buying commissions, packing costs, the cost of containers, certain goods or services supplied by the buyer free of charge or at reduced cost, and qualifying royalties and licence fees. The rule also deals with certain proceeds of subsequent resale and other payments made as a condition of sale. In addition, the valuation provisions require the cost of transport, loading, unloading and handling associated with delivery to the place of importation and the cost of insurance to be taken into account in the prescribed manner. Where the actual cost of transport or insurance cannot be ascertained, the Rules provide prescribed methods for determining those components. The valuation exercise depends on the facts of the particular transaction. A Practical Example: From Invoice Value to Assessable Value Consider an Indian company importing a consignment of industrial electronic equipment from a supplier in Singapore. For the purpose of this illustration, assume that the commercial invoice shows a free-on-board (FOB) price of USD 10,000. The actual freight from Singapore to India is USD 1,000 and insurance is USD 100. Assume, only for demonstrating the calculation, that the applicable customs exchange rate is ₹85 for USD 1. The first step is to convert the foreign currency figures into Indian rupees using the applicable customs exchange rate. The FOB value of USD 10,000 becomes ₹8,50,000. Freight of USD 1,000 becomes ₹85,000 and insurance of USD 100 becomes ₹8,500. Therefore: FOB value = ₹8,50,000 Freight = ₹85,000 Insurance = ₹8,500 Assessable Value = ₹9,43,500 In this example, the actual freight and insurance figures are available, so there is no need to use the prescribed fallback percentages for those components. The resulting ₹9,43,500 becomes the assessable value for the next stage of the calculation, assuming there are no other additions required under Rule 10 and no tariff value or special valuation provision applies. Calculation of Customs Duty For this illustration, assume that the goods attract Basic Customs Duty (BCD) of 10% and IGST of 18%. 1. Basic Customs Duty (BCD) BCD = 10% of ₹9,43,500 = ₹94,350 2. Social Welfare Surcharge (SWS) SWS is generally calculated at 10% of the specified customs duties, subject to the exclusions provided by law. On the assumed BCD in this example: SWS = 10% of ₹94,350 = ₹9,435. 3. IGST on Import The IGST base for imported goods is not simply the original invoice value. Under the Customs Tariff framework, the value for IGST includes the customs value along with the applicable customs duties and other amounts included as prescribed. IGST base = ₹9,43,500 + ₹94,350 + ₹9,435 = ₹10,47,285 IGST = 18% of ₹10,47,285 = ₹1,88,511.30 Therefore, the total amount of the three components in this illustration is: BCD = ₹94,350 SWS = ₹9,435 IGST = ₹1,88,511.30 Total = ₹2,92,296.30 This calculation shows why customs valuation matters. If the assessable value changes, BCD changes, SWS changes accordingly, and the base on which IGST is calculated can also change. The effect is therefore not limited to one part of the duty. What if Customs Does Not Accept the Declared Value? The difficulty begins when the officer has reason to doubt the declared value. For example, suppose an importer declares a price that is substantially lower than the price at which identical or similar goods have been imported at about the same time. That difference alone does not mean that the declared value can automatically be rejected. Customs valuation requires the officer to follow the mechanism provided under Rule 12 and, if the declared value is rejected, move through the prescribed valuation methods. The Supreme Court’s decision in Commissioner of Customs, Calcutta v. South India Television (P) Ltd. is useful in this context. The case concerned an allegation of under-valuation. The Court observed that a charge of under-invoicing has to be supported by evidence and that contemporaneous imports of comparable goods may be relevant. The case demonstrates that valuation disputes are fact-sensitive and that the Department must have a proper basis for treating the declared value as unreliable. This is also why documents become important in valuation disputes. A genuine commercial discount, differences in quantity, commercial level, product specifications or contractual terms may explain why two apparently similar imports have different prices. A simple comparison of two invoice amounts may therefore not tell the complete story. Practical Difficulties Faced by Importers One common difficulty is deciding which payments form part of the customs value. Importers may know the invoice price but overlook costs such as certain commissions, packing expenses, royalties or other payments connected with the sale. Another issue arises when the buyer and seller are related. The relationship does not automatically make the transaction value unacceptable, but the Rules require the acceptability of the declared price to be examined in accordance with the prescribed conditions. Another practical problem is classification. The rate of BCD and IGST depends on the correct tariff classification of the imported goods. Therefore, valuation cannot be looked at in isolation from classification and the applicable notifications. An incorrect description of the goods may affect not only the rate of duty but also the valuation process and the documents required for clearance. Critical Discussion Customs valuation attempts to balance two interests. On one side, the importer should not be forced to pay duty on an artificial or arbitrary value when the declared transaction is genuine. On the other side, the customs administration must be able to prevent undervaluation that reduces the duty payable. The transaction-value system therefore begins with the actual commercial price but contains safeguards for cases where that price cannot be accepted. International transactions are not always straightforward. Discounts, related-party transactions, royalty arrangements, bundled contracts and different freight arrangements can make it difficult to identify the exact value attributable to the imported goods. This is where the Valuation Rules become important because they provide a structured method instead of leaving valuation entirely to individual discretion. The importer has to move through several stages and identify the correct assessable value before applying the relevant duties and taxes. In a real transaction, exemptions, preferential rates, anti-dumping duty, safeguard measures, cess or other applicable provisions may further change the final amount. The numerical example in this blog is therefore an illustration of the method, not a universal duty rate for all imports. Conclusion and Suggestions Customs valuation may initially appear to be a calculation exercise, but it is actually a combination of statutory rules, commercial documents and factual assessment. Section 14 of the Customs Act establishes the foundation, while the Customs Valuation Rules provide the method for arriving at the value. The transaction value is the starting point, but the law also provides adjustments and alternative methods where the declared value cannot be accepted. The practical calculation makes the process easier to understand: first identify the price paid or payable, add the amounts that are legally includible, determine the assessable value, and then calculate BCD, SWS and IGST according to the applicable tariff and notifications. For importers, maintaining complete and accurate documentation is just as important as knowing the formula. A transparent valuation reduces the chances of disputes and helps ensure that the correct amount of duty is paid. Ultimately, customs valuation is not about finding the highest possible value or simply accepting the lowest declared figure. It is about arriving at the value recognised by law on the basis of the actual transaction and the prescribed rules. That is what turns an imported price into a legally assessable value for customs duty. References Customs Act, 1962, s. 14, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, Tax Information Portal. Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Imported Goods) Rules, 2007, rr. 3–10. Eicher Tractors Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs, Mumbai, (2001) 1 SCC 315; 2000 (122) ELT 321 (SC). Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Imported Goods) Rules, 2007, r. 12. Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Imported Goods) Rules, 2007, r. 10. Finance Act, 2018, s. 110; Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, “Social Welfare Surcharge”. Customs Tariff Act, 1975, s. 3(7); Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, s. 5(1). Commissioner of Customs, Calcutta v. South India Television (P) Ltd., (2007) 6 SCC 373; 2007 (214) ELT 3 (SC). Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Imported Goods) Rules, 2007, official Tax Information Portal. Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, official materials on customs duty structure and import valuation. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Download Customs Valuation in Practice: From Imported Value to Duty Calculation Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTvaluation rules Author Info Name: Roopampreet Kaur Qualification: Student - Others Location: Jalandhar, Punjab Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty DFIA Walnut Exemption Plea Withdrawn Before CAAR Mumbai October 1, 2026 CESTAT Ahmedabad Upholds EPCG Duty and Interest but Sets Aside Confiscation & Penalty October 1, 2026 Kitchen Exhaust Hoods Over 120 cm Classifiable Under CTH 8414 80 90: CAAR Mumbai October 1, 2026 Embedded Communication Modules Are Parts Under CTI 8517 79 90: CAAR Mumbai October 1, 2026 MILDS Aircraft Components Eligible for Customs Duty Exemption: CAAR Mumbai October 1, 2026 CESTAT Mumbai Quashes Duty, Confiscation and Penalties Over Alleged Iranian Cargo Origin October 1, 2026