Summary: Physical verification of fixed assets is often viewed as a sequence of verifying assets, reconciling them with the Fixed Asset Register (FAR) and preparing a final report. In practice, particularly across multiple locations or large asset populations, reconciliation should begin during fieldwork rather than after verification is complete. Daily review allows teams to identify duplicate asset or tag numbers, missing information, unclear photographs, incorrect locations or departments, unusual descriptions, quantity differences, assets that cannot be mapped to the FAR and FAR assets that cannot be located while the team is still available at the site. Floor-to-Sheet verification and Sheet-to-Floor verification serve different purposes, and their results need to be compared and exceptions investigated. Early identification of an issue may allow a simple revisit or clarification, whereas the same issue after the team has left may require additional correspondence, records, photographs or another site visit and may still remain unresolved. Management should therefore monitor not merely the percentage of assets verified but also how many have been matched, not matched, not found, or remain subject to location, quantity or other clarification. The final reconciliation should clearly classify material differences, including Matched, Not Found, Additional, Location Difference, Description Difference, Quantity Difference and Pending Clarification. Technology such as QR codes, RFID tags, mobile applications and automated reconciliation tools can improve efficiency, but cannot replace sound verification controls. A well-managed process ensures that the final report contains fewer surprises because exceptions are progressively identified, investigated and closed throughout the exercise. Introduction When we talk about physical verification of fixed assets, the process often sounds very simple: Verify the assets → reconcile with the Fixed Asset Register (FAR) → prepare the report. On paper, this sequence looks perfectly logical. In an actual verification exercise, particularly where there are multiple locations or a large number of assets, it can create problems. The report should not really start after the physical verification is over. In a well-managed exercise, the report starts taking shape from the first day of fieldwork. The reason is simple: a difference found while the verification team is still at the location is much easier to resolve than the same difference found after the team has left. Table of Contents▸ What happens during actual verification? A simple example Floor-to-Sheet and Sheet-to-Floor serve different purposes Why daily review is important The later you find an error, the harder it becomes to correct Don't wait until the end to understand the exceptions What should finally come out of the reconciliation? Technology helps, but it does not replace the process The final report should contain fewer surprises Conclusion Show all 10 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); What happens during actual verification? Every day, the field team collects information from the ground. Depending upon the scope of the assignment, this may include asset description, asset number, serial number, location, department, quantity, condition and photographs. At this stage, collecting the data is only half the job. The data should also be reviewed while the team is still at the site. A number of issues may otherwise remain unnoticed. For example, the same asset may have been recorded twice, an asset may have been classified under the wrong category, a serial number may have been missed, or the location recorded by the team may not match the location master. There can also be a more fundamental problem: an asset seen physically may not be readily identifiable in the FAR. These are usually manageable issues when identified immediately. The same issues become much more difficult to resolve after the field team has moved to another location. For related considerations on physical verification and fixed asset controls, see Internal controls and Audit of Fixed Assets. A simple example Suppose the field team records an asset as “Electrical Equipment”, while the FAR contains an asset described as “10 KVA UPS.” Are they the same asset? If this question comes up while the team is still at the location, somebody can walk back to the asset, check the make and model, look at the nameplate, verify the serial number or take another photograph. If the question comes up two weeks later, the person doing the reconciliation may have only the Excel data and a photograph that does not show the required information. The difference is the same. The ability to resolve it is not. This is why reconciliation should not be left entirely until the end of the physical verification. Floor-to-Sheet and Sheet-to-Floor serve different purposes A proper physical verification exercise generally needs to look at the assets from both directions. In Floor-to-Sheet verification, the team starts with the asset physically available at the location and tries to identify it in the FAR. This can help identify assets that are physically available but are not properly recorded, assets lying at a different location, incorrect descriptions and similar issues. In Sheet-to-Floor verification, the team starts with the FAR and tries to physically locate the assets appearing in it. This helps identify assets that cannot be found, assets that have moved, assets that may have been disposed of but continue to appear in the FAR and other book-to-physical differences. Doing both is useful. But simply completing both exercises is not enough. Their results need to be compared and exceptions need to be investigated. The importance of reconciling physical verification with records is also reflected in the audit checklist dealing with physical verification and reconciliation of fixed assets. Why daily review is important Daily review does not mean that the entire FAR has to be finally reconciled every evening. The objective is much simpler: identify issues that can still be corrected while the field team is available. For example, the review may identify: duplicate asset numbers or tag numbers; missing mandatory information; incomplete or unclear photographs; incorrect location or department codes; unusual asset descriptions; quantity differences; assets that cannot be mapped to the FAR; and FAR assets that the team has been unable to locate. There is another benefit. Suppose a team has misunderstood how a particular category of assets should be recorded. If this is discovered after three days, the process can be corrected from the fourth day onwards. If it is discovered after the entire exercise is complete, the same mistake may already exist in hundreds of records. Daily review therefore works as a quality check on the verification process itself. The later you find an error, the harder it becomes to correct One practical lesson from physical verification assignments is that the cost of resolving an error depends heavily on when it is identified. While the team is at the site, a clarification may require a five-minute revisit. After the team has left, the same clarification may require contacting the location team, identifying the relevant custodian, finding photographs, checking movement records or asking someone at the site to verify the asset again. Sometimes the issue cannot be conclusively resolved at all. This becomes particularly important in multi-location assignments. Once the team moves from one city or location to another, going back to resolve individual observations may not be practical. For further context on location-related fixed asset differences, see Asset Movement Register: A Practical Format for Better Fixed Asset Control. Don’t wait until the end to understand the exceptions Management should also be able to see how the verification is progressing while the exercise is underway. The review should not only answer: How many assets have been verified? It should also answer: How many have been matched? How many could not be matched? How many book assets are still not found? Are there location differences? Are there quantity differences? Which observations still require clarification? This gives management a much better picture of the quality of the exercise than a simple percentage-completion dashboard. A project can be 90% physically complete and still have a large reconciliation problem waiting at the end. A related discussion on the management value of the final verification output is available in Physical Verification Report: The Start of Better Decisions. What should finally come out of the reconciliation? The final reconciliation should provide a clear trail of the exceptions identified during verification. Depending upon the nature and scope of the assignment, assets may ultimately fall into categories such as: Matched: The physical asset has been identified against the FAR. Not Found: The asset appears in the FAR but could not be physically located. Additional: The asset was physically observed but could not be matched with an appropriate FAR record. Location Difference: The asset exists but was found at a location or department different from the records. Description Difference: The physical description and FAR description require clarification. Quantity Difference: The physical quantity differs from the quantity appearing in the records. Pending Clarification: Further information from management or the concerned department is required before the difference can be closed. The terminology may differ from one organisation to another. What matters is that every material difference has a clear status and can be followed through to its conclusion. The importance of identifying assets that appear in the FAR but cannot be located is also discussed in Ghost Assets: A Hidden Risk in Fixed Asset Registers. Technology helps, but it does not replace the process Today, physical verification can be supported by QR codes, RFID tags, mobile applications, photographs and automated reconciliation tools. These technologies can certainly improve efficiency. They can help prevent duplicate scans, make certain fields mandatory, capture photographs and provide faster progress reporting. But technology cannot correct a weak verification process. If the wrong asset has been identified or incomplete information has been captured, putting that information into an application does not make it correct. The basic questions remain the same: Did we identify the correct asset? Did we capture enough information about it? Can we reconcile the physical observation with the books? Technology should make these controls easier to perform. It should not replace them. For a related discussion on technology-assisted asset identification, see Physical Verification of Fixed Assets under CARO 2020 – A Practical Guide for CAs. The final report should contain fewer surprises If verification data is being reviewed and exceptions are being investigated throughout the exercise, most of the major issues should already be known by the time the fieldwork ends. The final stage then becomes a process of closing the remaining exceptions, obtaining management clarifications where required and compiling the results. That is very different from completing the physical count first and opening the data for detailed reconciliation only afterwards. For a finance team planning a physical verification exercise, therefore, one useful question to ask is not merely: “When will the physical verification be completed?” It is also: “When will the data collected from the field be reviewed and reconciled?” The answer can have a significant impact on the quality of the final report. Conclusion Physical verification is not just a counting exercise. Verification, review and reconciliation should move together throughout the assignment. An error identified today may take five minutes to resolve. The same error identified after the team has left the location may take several emails, telephone calls and supporting documents — and may still remain unresolved. That is why, in practice, the asset verification report is not written at the end. It is built throughout the exercise — one verified asset, one exception and one reconciliation at a time. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under method of accounting Author Info Name: Hitesh Aggarwal-Founder TagMyAssets Qualification: CA in Practice Company: TagmyAssets Location: Gurgaon, Haryana Articles Published: 24 View full profile → More from Hitesh Aggarwal-Founder TagMyAssets Asset Movement Register: A Practical Format for Better Fixed Asset Control August 13, 2026 Physical Verification Report: The Start of Better Decisions August 1, 2026 Why a Fixed Asset Register Never Fully Reconciles: Implications for CARO Reporting July 27, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance IFSCA (Fund Management) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2026 September 10, 2026 Equity Investment Ideas in India: Types, Benefits, Risks & Investment Process September 10, 2026 FIU-IND Issues Non-Compliance Notices to 15 VDA Service Providers Under PMLA September 9, 2026 Prem Dharmani on Corporate Governance and Compliance: Key Considerations for Modern AI Businesses September 9, 2026 Benefits of Registering a Startup in India | DPIIT Tax Exemptions 2026 September 9, 2026 Is the Zero Depreciation Add-on Worth It for Your Car Insurance? September 9, 2026