Summary: An IPO is not merely a listing-day event but a transformation that begins 18 to 24 months before the Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP) is filed with SEBI. This practitioner’s guide maps the pre-IPO runway across the financial-reporting backbone, Ind AS readiness, internal financial controls, corporate governance, diligence clean-up, regulatory eligibility, cross-border compliance and recent ICDR amendments. The foundation is Restated Consolidated Financial Information (RCFI), covering three full financial years plus the interim stub period and requiring historical numbers to be restated for accounting-policy changes, prior-period errors and material misstatements, regroupings, reclassifications and quantifiable audit qualifications. The article highlights recurring Ind AS areas including financial instruments, revenue, leases, borrowing costs, common-control combinations and consolidation boundaries. It also addresses IFC/ICFR, entity-level controls, segregation of duties, governance restructuring, committees, ROC hygiene, related-party transactions, capital structure, litigation, contingent liabilities, promoter dealings and lock-in requirements. Under ICDR, companies must identify early whether they qualify through the profitability route under Regulation 6(1) or the QIB route under Regulation 6(2), while groups with foreign investors or overseas operations must address FDI, ODI, downstream investment and FEMA compliance. The article further explains key 2025 and 2026 ICDR changes, including litigation materiality, KMP/SMP disclosures, SARs, promoter and pre-IPO transaction reporting, the Draft Abridged Prospectus, QR-code access, system-level lock-in enforcement and standalone disclosure sections for RPTs and contingent liabilities. The central message is that IPO readiness is an audit discipline applied across the entire company. Pre-IPO Readiness Before DRHP Filing: Financial, Control and Regulatory Roadmap Most founders think of an IPO as an event — a listing day, a bell, a price band. From where an auditor sits, it is a transformation that begins 18 to 24 months earlier, long before any merchant banker is appointed. By the time the Draft Red Herring Prospectus (DRHP) is filed with SEBI, the hard work — the part that decides whether the diligence holds — is already done. This is a practitioner’s map of that runway: the financial-reporting backbone, the controls, the structural clean-up, and the regulatory eligibility that together make a company issue-ready under the SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (“ICDR”). I’ve also folded in what the 2025 and 2026 ICDR amendments have changed, because the goalposts moved recently and a lot of older checklists are now stale. Table of Contents▸ The Financial-Reporting Backbone: Restated Consolidated Financial Information Ind AS Readiness — The Conversion Most Companies Underestimate Internal Financial Controls — Building an Audit Trail That Survives Diligence Corporate and Governance Restructuring — Becoming a Public Company in Substance The Clean-Up Workstreams — Where Pre-IPO Diligence Concentrates Regulatory Eligibility — Which Door You Walk Through The Cross-Border Layer — FEMA, ODI, and Downstream Compliance What’s New — And Why Your Old Checklist Is Stale The Readiness Mindset Show all 9 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); The Financial-Reporting Backbone: Restated Consolidated Financial Information Everything in a DRHP is built on one foundation: the Restated Consolidated Financial Information (RCFI) — three full financial years plus the interim stub period, restated and re-audited specifically for the offer document. This is not the same as your annual statutory financials. RCFI is governed by ICDR Schedule VI read with the ICAI’s Guidance Note on Reports in Company Prospectuses (Revised 2019), and it requires the auditor to restate the historical numbers for: Changes in accounting policy — applied retrospectively across all years presented, so the three years are comparable on a single, current policy basis. Prior-period errors and material misstatements — corrected and pushed back to the year of origin, not the year of discovery. Regroupings and reclassifications — to align presentation across all periods. Audit qualifications that are quantifiable and require adjustment. The output is a single, internally consistent three-year-plus-stub picture — issued under a fresh auditor’s report on restated financials. For a company carrying messy comparatives, mid-period policy changes, or a history of qualified opinions, this is where the timeline lives or dies. You cannot restate what you cannot reconstruct. Practitioner’s note: start the RCFI gap assessment first. If the three reporting years were audited under different policies, by different auditors, or with open qualifications, the reconciliation work alone can consume months. Ind AS Readiness — The Conversion Most Companies Underestimate If the company is still on Indian GAAP, Ind AS adoption is a precondition, not a footnote. And even Ind AS-compliant companies tend to underestimate how much IPO-grade scrutiny the standards attract. The recurring battlegrounds: Ind AS 109 (Financial Instruments) — classification of investments (FVTOCI vs FVTPL vs amortised cost), the irrevocable FVTOCI election for equity instruments, ECL on receivables and loans, and embedded derivatives in provisional-pricing or convertible arrangements. Ind AS 115 (Revenue) — the five-step model, variable consideration, principal-vs-agent, and the intersection with GST and ICDR disclosure. Revenue is the single most diligenced line in any DRHP. Ind AS 116 (Leases) — right-of-use assets and lease liabilities reshaping the balance sheet and EBITDA optics that investors price. Ind AS 23 / borrowing costs and CWIP — eligibility of capitalisation, the CWIP vintage curve, and what gets expensed versus carried. Ind AS 103 / 110 — common-control combinations, de facto control, and consolidation boundary calls that determine what is even being listed. Each of these is a place where a restatement adjustment can ripple across all three RCFI years. Resolve the judgments before the merchant banker’s reporting accountants arrive — not during diligence. Internal Financial Controls — Building an Audit Trail That Survives Diligence A public company auditor reports on Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting (IFC/ICFR) under Section 143(3)(i) of the Companies Act, 2013, and the board accepts responsibility for them under Section 134(5)(e). For an IPO-bound company, this is no longer a year-end formality — it becomes a continuous discipline closer in spirit to SOX. The pre-IPO work is to design, document, and operate a controls framework that an external party can test: Process-level Risk and Control Matrices (RCMs) for each significant cycle — revenue, procurement, payroll, treasury, fixed assets, financial close. Evidence of operating effectiveness, not just design — populations, samples, and testing that pre-dates the offer. Entity-level controls, segregation of duties, and a clean delegation-of-authority matrix. A remediation cycle for deficiencies, with a documented trail. Companies that wait until the listing year to “do IFC” end up retrofitting evidence. Diligence finds the seams. Corporate and Governance Restructuring — Becoming a Public Company in Substance Listing requires the company to be a public company well before it acts like one in the market: Conversion to a public limited company, with the consequential MOA/AOA amendments and adoption of SEBI-compliant articles. Board reconstitution under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“LODR”) — the right ratio of independent directors, at least one woman director (a woman independent director for the larger boards), and genuinely independent appointees who can withstand scrutiny. Committees — Audit Committee, Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Stakeholders Relationship Committee, and a Risk Management Committee for the larger issuers — constituted, charged, and minuted in operation, not merely on paper. Secretarial and ROC hygiene — clean statutory registers, resolved charges, regularised filings, and a defensible cap table. Governance maturity is not a disclosure item you draft at the end. Diligence reads the minutes — it wants to see committees that have actually met and decided. The Clean-Up Workstreams — Where Pre-IPO Diligence Concentrates This is the unglamorous heart of pre-IPO work, and where an auditor’s instincts earn their keep: Related Party Transactions (RPTs) — map every relationship, bring pricing to arm’s length, document the commercial rationale, route approvals through the audit committee, and align with LODR Regulation 23 thresholds. Under the 2026 amendments, RPTs are now elevated to a standalone section in the offer document — so the disclosure bar has risen, not fallen. Capital structure simplification — the DRHP generally cannot be filed with outstanding convertibles. Anything convertible must be mandatorily convertible ahead of the RHP; ESOP allotments are carved out, and the 2025 amendments now also accommodate SARs exercised into equity before DRHP filing, including their treatment in the minimum promoter contribution computation. Litigation and contingent liabilities — and here the 2025 amendments changed the materiality test for civil litigation: disclosure is now triggered by the lower of the board’s materiality policy or objective financial thresholds (broadly, 2% of turnover or net worth, or 5% of the average absolute PAT of the last three restated years). Criminal proceedings and regulatory actions against KMPs and SMPs must now be disclosed. Contingent liabilities, like RPTs, are now a standalone offer-document section under the 2026 amendments. Pre-IPO placements and promoter dealings — securities transactions by promoters and the promoter group must be reported to the exchanges within 24 hours from draft filing until issue closure, and any disclosed pre-IPO placement reported within 24 hours of the transaction. Lock-in and pledged shares — the 2026 amendments closed a long-standing gap, empowering issuers to instruct depositories to mark locked-in shares as “non-transferable” at a system level, so lock-in is now enforced by infrastructure rather than honour. Regulatory Eligibility — Which Door You Walk Through Under ICDR, a main-board IPO runs through one of two routes: Regulation 6(1) — the profitability route: broadly, net tangible assets of at least ₹3 crore in each of the preceding three full years (with monetary assets capped at 50%), an average operating profit of at least ₹15 crore over those three years, and net worth of at least ₹1 crore in each. A genuine track record. Regulation 6(2) — the QIB route: if you don’t meet the profitability test, you can still list via book-building with at least 75% of the issue allotted to Qualified Institutional Buyers, failing which the subscription is refunded. Layered on top are the Offer for Sale (OFS) thresholds for selling shareholders in Regulation 6(2) issues — shareholders holding more than 20% pre-IPO (fully diluted) cannot offer more than 50% of their holding, and those below 20% cannot offer more than 10% — calculated on a fully diluted basis and read together with permitted secondary transfers. Picking the route early dictates the entire narrative: the profitability route sells a track record; the QIB route sells a growth story to institutions. The financial story you build must match the door. The Cross-Border Layer — FEMA, ODI, and Downstream Compliance For groups with foreign investors, overseas subsidiaries, or outbound investments, the regulatory surface widens considerably: FDI and pricing guidelines — clean documentation of every foreign investment round, valuation support, and reporting compliance. ODI / overseas subsidiaries — compliance under the FEMA (Overseas Investment) framework, including reporting, and the auditor’s comfort over the consolidation of foreign operations into the RCFI. Downstream investment rules where foreign-owned-and-controlled entities sit in the structure. A single unreported foreign-exchange transaction surfacing in diligence can stall a filing. Reconcile the FEMA position with the same rigour as the financials. What’s New — And Why Your Old Checklist Is Stale If you’re working from a pre-2025 playbook, refresh it. In short: 2025 ICDR amendments recalibrated litigation materiality, expanded KMP/SMP disclosure, allowed voluntary proforma and acquired/divested-business financials (certified by a Peer-Review-certified CA), accommodated SARs in DRHP and MPC computation, tightened the 24-hour reporting of promoter and pre-IPO transactions, and clarified that long-term working-capital disclosures rest on audited standalone financials — restated where consolidated restatements flow through. 2026 ICDR amendments introduced the Draft Abridged Prospectus at DRHP stage, QR-code access to the RHP and price-band advertisement, system-level enforcement of lock-in on pledged shares, and elevated Related Party Transactions and Contingent Liabilities to standalone offer-document sections — a clear signal of where the regulator’s attention now sits. The direction of travel is unmistakable: earlier, standardised, technology-enforced disclosure, with the regulator privileging transparency over procedural convenience. The Readiness Mindset The companies that list cleanly are not the ones with the best story on listing day. They are the ones that spent the runway treating the IPO as an operating transformation — restating honestly, building controls that survive testing, simplifying the cap table, and resolving the hard accounting judgments before anyone was diligence-ing them. Pre-IPO preparation is, in the end, an audit discipline applied to an entire company. Get the foundation right, and the DRHP almost writes itself. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013SEBI Author Info Name: Arnab Mitra Qualification: Student - CA/CS/CMA Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Arnab Mitra Ceteris Paribus: When All Else Isn’t Equal September 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in SEBI Demat 2.0 Tokenised Corporate Bonds Pilot and FAQs: SEBI September 10, 2026 SEBI Chairman Addresses Global Fintech Fest 2026 on AI, Tokenisation and Market Regulation September 10, 2026 Converting a Privately Placed InvIT into a Publicly offered InvIT: Is Trust Deed Ready? September 10, 2026 Failed Buyback Alone Cannot Establish Fraud Without Corroborative Evidence: SC September 10, 2026 SEBI Consultation Paper Proposes Stronger Governance Framework for MIIs September 9, 2026 SEBI Revises Commodity Derivatives Position Limits and Penalties for Violations September 9, 2026