Summary: The GST Common Portal has introduced a Multistate Registration facility with effect from 1 October 2026, enabling eligible Normal Taxpayers requiring GST registration in multiple States or Union Territories under the same PAN to initiate those applications through a common process. A Master Temporary Reference Number (Master TRN) is generated, common registration information is furnished through it, and individual State/UT-specific TRNs are subsequently generated. The facility reduces repetitive data entry but does not create a single all-India GST registration or GSTIN. GST registration continues to remain State/UT-specific, and separate registrations continue to be treated as distinct persons under Section 25(4) of the CGST Act. State-specific information, including principal and additional places of business, supporting documents and applicable Aadhaar authentication, must still be completed separately. The facility is presently available only to Normal Taxpayers and does not permit multiple registrations in the same State/UT through one Master TRN. Businesses should first determine where registration is legally required rather than selecting States merely because customers are located there. The new facility is therefore a procedural and technological simplification of the registration application process, not a change to the substantive State-wise GST registration framework. One Master TRN for Multiple States/UTs – Applicability, Procedure, Exclusions, GSTIN and Key Compliance Points Table of Contents▸ 1. Introduction 2. What Is the New Multi-State GST Registration Facility? Earlier Approach New Approach 3. Is One GSTIN Now Available for Multiple States? 4. What Is a Master TRN? 5. Who Can Use the Multistate Registration Facility? Examples of Businesses That May Find the Facility Useful 6. Who Is Not Covered by the New Facility? 7. Can Multiple States and UTs Be Selected Together? 8. Important Restriction – One Registration per State/UT Through One Master TRN 9. What Is Commonly Entered Through the Master TRN? 10. What Information Still Needs to Be Given State-Wise? 11. Step-by-Step Process Step 1 – Access the GST Portal Step 2 – Select States/UTs Step 3 – Enter Basic Details Step 4 – Generate Master TRN Step 5 – Enter Common Registration Information Step 6 – Submit Master TRN Step 7 – State-specific TRNs Step 8 – Complete State-wise Applications Step 9 – Verification Step 10 – Grant of GST Registration 12. Example: Company Operating in Four States Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5 Stage 6 Stage 7 13. Does the New Facility Change Section 25 of the CGST Act? 14. Does the New Facility Change the Concept of Distinct Persons? 15. Can One GSTIN Be Used for Another State? 16. Does Having Customers in Another State Require GST Registration There? 17. What About Branches in Different States? 18. Does the New Facility Create a Common ITC Pool? 19. Common Input Services – Important Point 20. What Happens After GSTINs Are Issued? 21. What Are the Major Benefits? Earlier Now Key Benefits 22. But There Is Also an Important Risk 23. Master TRN vs State TRN vs GSTIN 24. What the New Facility Does Not Do 25. Earlier Process vs New Process 26. Practical Checklist Before Using the Facility A. Determine the States Where Registration Is Actually Required B. Verify PAN C. Verify Legal Name D. Prepare State-wise Premises Documents E. Review Common Information F. Review Each State Application Separately 27. Key Takeaways 28. Conclusion Show all 57 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 1. Introduction GST registration has traditionally been a State/Union Territory-wise process. A business requiring GST registrations in several States generally had to initiate separate registration applications and repeatedly enter common information such as the legal name, PAN, promoter/partner details and authorised signatory details. To simplify this process, the GST Common Portal has introduced a new “Multistate Registration” facility with effect from 1 October 2026. The new facility and its Master TRN mechanism are set out in the GSTN advisory on Multistate GST Registration. The facility allows an eligible taxpayer requiring registration in multiple States/Union Territories under the same PAN to initiate those registration applications through a common process. A Master Temporary Reference Number (Master TRN) is generated, common registration information is furnished through that Master TRN, and thereafter individual State/UT-specific TRNs are generated. However, taxpayers must understand one fundamental point: One Master TRN does NOT mean one GSTIN for the whole of India. The GST registration framework continues to be State/UT-specific. The new facility primarily simplifies the application process; it does not merge separate State registrations into one registration. Section 25 of the CGST Act continues to provide for registration in every State or Union Territory where the person is liable to be registered, while Section 25(4) treats multiple registrations of the same person as distinct persons for GST purposes. 2. What Is the New Multi-State GST Registration Facility? The new facility is a GST Portal functionality that enables an eligible applicant to initiate applications for GST registration in multiple States/UTs through a common registration flow. Earlier Approach Suppose ABC Limited needed registrations in: Delhi Haryana Maharashtra Karnataka The applicant generally had to initiate separate registration applications for each State and repeatedly provide common information. New Approach The taxpayer can select the required States/UTs through the Multistate Registration facility. The broad process is: Select multiple States/UTs ↓ Generate Master TRN ↓ Enter Common Registration Information ↓ Submit Master TRN ↓ Individual State/UT TRNs generated ↓ Complete State-specific information ↓ State-wise verification/approval ↓ Separate GSTIN for each State/UT The facility therefore reduces repetitive data entry while retaining the State-wise registration structure. 3. Is One GSTIN Now Available for Multiple States? No. This is the most important clarification. The introduction of a Master TRN should not be interpreted as introduction of a single national GST registration. For example, if XYZ Limited obtains GST registrations in: State Result Delhi Separate GSTIN Haryana Separate GSTIN Maharashtra Separate GSTIN Karnataka Separate GSTIN The company will continue to have four separate GST registrations/GSTINs. The Master TRN merely facilitates the application process. The statutory framework continues to provide for State/UT-wise registration, and GSTINs themselves incorporate a State code. The State-wise structure of the GSTIN is also reflected in TaxGuru’s GST State Code reference. In simple words: One PAN → One Master TRN → Multiple State-wise TRNs → Multiple GSTINs and not One PAN → One Master TRN → One GSTIN for India 4. What Is a Master TRN? TRN stands for Temporary Reference Number. Under the normal GST registration mechanism, a TRN is generated during the registration application process and is used to proceed with the application. The CGST Rules and Rule 8 registration process provide for the registration application procedure and TRN-related process. Under the new facility, the applicant first receives a: Master Temporary Reference Number The Master TRN acts as the common reference for the multiple State/UT registration applications selected by the applicant. After the common registration information is submitted through the Master TRN, the system generates individual State/UT-specific TRNs. Therefore: Master TRN ≠ GSTIN A TRN is an application reference. A GSTIN is the registration number allotted after successful grant of registration. 5. Who Can Use the Multistate Registration Facility? As presently specified for the new portal functionality, the facility is available to: Normal Taxpayers who: 1. require GST registration in more than one State/UT; and 2. are applying under the same PAN. The GSTN facility is presently stated to be available only for Normal Taxpayers. Examples of Businesses That May Find the Facility Useful Companies expanding into multiple States LLPs operating from multiple States Partnership firms Manufacturing companies Retail chains Logistics businesses Infrastructure companies Service businesses having establishments in multiple States Businesses opening branches/offices/other establishments across States However, needing customers or making supplies to customers in another State does not by itself automatically mean that another State registration is required. The actual GST registration requirement must be determined under the applicable provisions. CBIC’s FAQ, for example, states that a service provider is required to register at the location from which services are supplied; merely having customers in another State does not automatically create a registration requirement there. TaxGuru’s GST registration FAQs also address registration requirements where services are supplied from one State to another. 6. Who Is Not Covered by the New Facility? The present portal functionality is stated to be available only to Normal Taxpayers. Accordingly, taxpayers falling under specialised registration categories should not assume that they can use the Multistate Registration route. This includes categories such as: Composition taxpayers Casual taxable persons Non-resident taxable persons TDS deductors TCS collectors Input Service Distributors OIDAR-related registrations Other specialised categories The existing CGST Rules prescribe separate registration mechanisms for various categories. Rule 8 itself excludes certain specified categories from the ordinary registration procedure. Form GST REG-01 also sets out the normal registration application framework and its specified exclusions. Important The facility should therefore not be described as a universal GST registration facility for every type of taxpayer. The eligibility currently stated for the new functionality is: Normal Taxpayer 7. Can Multiple States and UTs Be Selected Together? Yes. The new functionality permits the applicant to select the States/Union Territories for which registration applications are required. For example: Delhi + Haryana + Maharashtra + Karnataka + Rajasthan can be selected through the common registration process, subject to the portal’s applicable conditions. A single Master TRN is then generated for the selected States/UTs. After submission of the common information, individual TRNs are generated for the respective State/UT applications. 8. Important Restriction – One Registration per State/UT Through One Master TRN Another important point is that selecting multiple States does not mean that the applicant can create multiple registrations in the same State through one Master TRN. For example, suppose ABC Limited wants: Delhi – Registration 1 Delhi – Registration 2 Maharashtra – Registration 1 The Master TRN facility does not simply allow two Delhi registrations to be generated under the same Master TRN. The portal functionality presently permits one registration for a particular State/UT through one Master TRN. Where a taxpayer requires another registration within the same State under the applicable provisions, the relevant separate registration procedure needs to be followed. 9. What Is Commonly Entered Through the Master TRN? One of the major benefits of the new facility is that common registration information can be furnished through the Master TRN. The GSTN-related guidance identifies Common Registration Information such as: Business Details Promoter/Partner Details Authorised Signatory Authorised Representative Goods and Services This information is subsequently populated into the individual State/UT applications. 10. What Information Still Needs to Be Given State-Wise? The new facility does not eliminate State-specific information. After individual State/UT TRNs are generated, the applicant still has to complete the information applicable to each State. This includes, as applicable: Principal Place of Business Additional Places of Business State-specific information Address and premises-related information Applicable supporting documents Aadhaar authentication Other information required by the registration application The common information populated from the Master TRN remains editable in the respective State applications. Therefore: Common information = entered once but State-specific information = completed separately. 11. Step-by-Step Process Step 1 – Access the GST Portal The applicant accesses the GST Common Portal and selects the Multistate Registration option. Step 2 – Select States/UTs Select all States/UTs where GST registration is actually required. Step 3 – Enter Basic Details The applicant provides the required initial details, including information relating to: Legal name PAN Email Mobile/OTP verification, as applicable Step 4 – Generate Master TRN After the preliminary process, a Master TRN is generated. Step 5 – Enter Common Registration Information The applicant provides the common information relating to: Business Promoters/Partners Authorised Signatory Authorised Representative Goods and Services Step 6 – Submit Master TRN The Master TRN is required to be submitted within 15 days, according to the current GSTN-related guidance on the functionality. Step 7 – State-specific TRNs After submission, individual TRNs are generated for each selected State/UT. Step 8 – Complete State-wise Applications The applicant completes: Principal Place of Business Additional Places of Business State-specific details Supporting information/documents Aadhaar authentication, where applicable Step 9 – Verification Each application proceeds through the applicable verification process. Step 10 – Grant of GST Registration Once the individual State applications are approved, separate GSTINs are issued. The existing GST rules continue to provide for issuance of a registration certificate and GSTIN following approval of the registration application. 12. Example: Company Operating in Four States Suppose ABC Private Limited has: Head Office – Delhi Factory – Haryana Branch – Maharashtra Warehouse/business establishment – Karnataka Assuming GST registration is legally required in all four States, ABC can use the new Multistate Registration facility. Stage 1 Select: Delhi + Haryana + Maharashtra + Karnataka Stage 2 Master TRN generated. Stage 3 Common information entered: Company details Directors/promoters Authorised signatory Goods/services Stage 4 Master TRN submitted. Stage 5 Four State-specific TRNs generated. Stage 6 ABC completes premises and State-specific details separately. Stage 7 After approval: Delhi GSTIN Haryana GSTIN Maharashtra GSTIN Karnataka GSTIN Thus, the new facility simplifies the application process, but does not convert these registrations into one GSTIN. 13. Does the New Facility Change Section 25 of the CGST Act? No. This is an important legal distinction. Section 25(1) provides that a person liable for registration must apply for registration in every State or Union Territory in which such person is so liable. Section 25(4) further provides that a person having more than one registration is treated as a distinct person in respect of each registration. Therefore, the new portal functionality does not by itself change: State-wise registration requirements Distinct-person treatment State-wise GSTINs State-wise returns State-wise tax compliance Other substantive GST obligations It is essentially a procedural/technology enhancement to the registration application process. 14. Does the New Facility Change the Concept of Distinct Persons? No. Suppose ABC Limited has: Delhi GSTIN and Maharashtra GSTIN Both GSTINs belong to the same legal entity and have the same PAN. Nevertheless, for GST purposes, separate registrations are treated as distinct persons under Section 25(4). The statutory treatment of such registrations as distinct persons is also explained in TaxGuru’s material on transactions with distinct persons. This is a fundamental concept that remains unaffected by the new Master TRN facility. 15. Can One GSTIN Be Used for Another State? No, where separate registration is required. For example: ABC Limited has a GSTIN in Delhi and establishes a place of business in Maharashtra in circumstances requiring Maharashtra registration. The Delhi GSTIN cannot simply be treated as the Maharashtra GSTIN. CBIC’s FAQ also clarifies that registration in another State is a fresh registration, rather than merely an extension of the existing State registration. TaxGuru’s GST registration FAQs expressly address this point. 16. Does Having Customers in Another State Require GST Registration There? Not automatically. This is a common misconception. Suppose a Delhi-based consultancy provides services to customers in: Maharashtra Gujarat Karnataka Tamil Nadu The mere fact that its customers are located in those States does not automatically mean that the consultancy must obtain GST registration in all those States. The actual registration requirement depends upon the applicable GST provisions and the location from which the taxable supply is made. CBIC’s FAQ states, in relation to service suppliers, that registration is required at the location from which services are supplied. Therefore: Customer’s State ≠ Automatically Supplier’s Registration State The facts of each case must be examined. 17. What About Branches in Different States? Where a business has establishments in different States and separate GST registrations are required, those registrations are treated as distinct persons. For example: ABC Ltd – Delhi and ABC Ltd – Maharashtra are separate registered persons for GST purposes despite having: Same PAN Same company Same ownership Same legal entity This can have implications for: Invoicing Supply between establishments Input Tax Credit Accounting ISD E-invoicing E-way bills Returns Reconciliation CBIC’s sectoral FAQs recognise the distinct-person treatment and explain that supplies between distinct establishments can attract GST consequences. 18. Does the New Facility Create a Common ITC Pool? No. This is another major misconception. Suppose ABC Ltd. has: Delhi GSTIN – ITC ₹10 lakh Maharashtra GSTIN – ITC ₹4 lakh The ₹10 lakh credit in the Delhi registration does not automatically become available to the Maharashtra registration merely because both registrations were created through one Master TRN. CBIC has expressly clarified that where a firm has registrations in more than one State, each registration is treated as a separate registered person and credit cannot simply be cross-utilised between those separate registrations. 19. Common Input Services – Important Point Businesses operating in multiple States often receive common services such as: Statutory audit Consultancy Advertisement Marketing Information technology services Professional services Other common input services Where such services relate to multiple distinct persons/registrations, the applicable Input Service Distributor (ISD) mechanism and other relevant GST provisions should be examined. CBIC’s sectoral guidance specifically recognises the need for appropriate distribution of common input-service credit to the relevant distinct persons through the applicable mechanism. The post-2025 position concerning common input services and ISD is also discussed in TaxGuru’s analysis of Cross Charge and ISD for common services. Therefore, the Master TRN should not be misunderstood as creating a common ITC account. 20. What Happens After GSTINs Are Issued? Once separate GSTINs are granted, the taxpayer must continue to manage the registrations separately. Depending upon the applicable provisions, the taxpayer may need to maintain: State-wise tax records State-wise return compliance GSTIN-wise reconciliation GSTIN-wise tax payment State-wise invoicing E-invoice configuration E-way bill configuration Registration amendments Notices and departmental correspondence The GST registration certificate itself is issued with a GSTIN containing the State code and PAN-related components. 21. What Are the Major Benefits? The primary advantage is reduction in repetitive data entry. Earlier If registration was required in five States, common information had to be entered repeatedly across applications. Now The applicant can provide common information through the Master TRN and have it populated into the State-specific applications. Key Benefits 1. Less repetitive data entry 2. More convenient multi-State registration process 3. Common information available across applications 4. Reduced chances of inconsistent common information 5. Easier registration initiation for expanding businesses 6. Improved user experience on the GST Portal The facility is therefore primarily an administrative and technological simplification, rather than a change in the fundamental GST registration law. 22. But There Is Also an Important Risk The convenience of common data entry also means that errors in common information can potentially flow into multiple applications. Therefore, taxpayers should carefully verify: Legal name PAN Constitution Promoter/partner information Authorised signatory Goods/services HSN/SAC details Other common particulars before submitting the Master TRN. A small error in common information can create additional correction work across multiple State applications. 23. Master TRN vs State TRN vs GSTIN Particular Master TRN State-specific TRN GSTIN Purpose Common multi-State application Individual State application Actual GST registration Stage Initial/common stage State application stage After approval Number One for selected States/UTs Separate for each State/UT Separate for each GST registration Tax registration? No No Yes Can it be used as GSTIN? No No Yes Common information Entered here Auto-populated Forms part of registration State-specific information No Yes Yes 24. What the New Facility Does Not Do Taxpayers should remember the following: It does not create one all-India GSTIN. It does not merge multiple GST registrations. It does not eliminate State-wise GST compliance. It does not create a common ITC ledger. It does not eliminate State-specific address/document requirements. It does not make a TRN equivalent to GST registration. It does not automatically require registration in every State where customers are located. It does not permit multiple registrations in the same State through one Master TRN. It is not presently available for every category of GST taxpayer. 25. Earlier Process vs New Process Particular Earlier Process New Multistate Facility Multiple States Separate applications Common initiation Common details Re-entered Entered through Master TRN Master TRN Not applicable Yes State-specific TRN Separate Generated after Master TRN submission State-specific information Required Still required GSTIN State-wise State-wise GST returns State-wise State-wise ITC Registration-wise Registration-wise Distinct person Applicable Continues One national GSTIN No No Current eligibility Various registration routes Normal Taxpayers 26. Practical Checklist Before Using the Facility Before initiating a Multistate Registration application, businesses should consider the following: A. Determine the States Where Registration Is Actually Required Do not select States merely because: customers are located there; goods are sold to customers there; or business wants a GSTIN there without examining the applicable provisions. B. Verify PAN Ensure the PAN belongs to the entity applying for registration. C. Verify Legal Name The legal name should correspond with the PAN/MCA records, wherever applicable. D. Prepare State-wise Premises Documents Keep ready, as applicable: Ownership documents Rent/lease agreement Electricity/property documents NOC/consent documents Additional place documents E. Review Common Information Check: Promoters Partners Directors Authorised signatory Authorised representative Goods/services HSN/SAC F. Review Each State Application Separately Do not assume that because common information is auto-populated, the application is automatically complete. 27. Key Takeaways Multi-State Registration Is a New GST Portal Facility It is available from 1 October 2026 for eligible taxpayers. One Master TRN Can Facilitate Multiple State/UT Applications This reduces repetitive data entry. Common Information Is Entered Through the Master TRN Business, promoter/partner, authorised signatory, authorised representative and goods/services information can be furnished through the common process. Individual State/UT TRNs Are Generated After submission of the Master TRN, separate TRNs are generated for the selected States/UTs. GSTINs Remain State-Wise There is no single all-India GSTIN. State-Specific Information Remains Necessary Principal place of business, additional places of business and other State-specific requirements still need to be completed. Normal Taxpayers Are Presently Covered The current functionality is stated to be available only to Normal Taxpayers. Distinct-Person Concept Remains Separate GST registrations continue to be treated as distinct persons under Section 25(4). ITC Remains Registration-Specific The Master TRN does not create a common ITC pool. Registration Requirement Must Be Determined First A taxpayer should not select every State merely because it has customers there. 28. Conclusion The Multistate GST Registration facility introduced on the GST Portal from 1 October 2026 is an important procedural improvement for businesses that genuinely require GST registrations in multiple States or Union Territories. Its principal benefit is simple: Enter common registration information once and use it across multiple State/UT applications. The introduction of a Master TRN makes the initial registration process more streamlined and reduces repetitive data entry. However, businesses must clearly understand that this facility does not create a single GST registration for India. The fundamental GST framework remains State-wise. Each required State/UT continues to have its own application, verification process and, after approval, its own GSTIN. Separate registrations also continue to be treated as distinct persons for GST purposes. Therefore, businesses should view the change as: “One common application process for multiple State registrations” and not as: “One GST registration for multiple States.” For businesses expanding across India, the facility can substantially simplify the registration initiation stage. However, proper State-wise assessment, documentation, accounting, invoicing, ITC management and ongoing GST compliance remain essential. **** Disclaimer: This article is intended solely for general informational and educational purposes and is based on the GST Portal/GSTN advisories, applicable provisions of the CGST Act, 2017, CGST Rules, 2017 and relevant CBIC guidance available as on 3 October 2026. The Multistate GST Registration facility is a portal-based application facility and does not create a single GST registration or GSTIN for multiple States/Union Territories. State-wise registration requirements and the concept of distinct persons continue to apply. GST laws, rules, notifications, circulars and portal procedures are subject to change. Readers are advised to verify the latest applicable provisions and obtain appropriate professional advice before taking any action. This article does not constitute legal, tax or professional advice, and the author/publisher shall not be responsible for any loss or consequence arising from reliance on the information contained herein. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Notifications Author Info Name: CS Shashank Kothiyal Qualification: CS Company: S Kothiyal & Associates, Company Secretaries Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 56 View full profile → More from CS Shashank Kothiyal GST Appeal Filing Made Easier with New GSTAT Token Facility July 19, 2026 RBI Credit Reporting Amendment Directions 2025: Key Changes for NBFCs June 22, 2026 From Grant to Allotment: Hidden ESOP Compliance Checklist No One Talks About February 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Mixed Supply Under GST: Highest Tax Rate Rule, Examples & DOMS Industries Ruling October 4, 2026 GST Council: Structure, Voting, Recommendations & Role in Fiscal Federalism October 3, 2026 GST Search Authorisation Must Clearly Specify Power Exercised Under Section 67: Madras HC October 3, 2026 GST Section 23: Persons Not Liable for Registration, Exemptions & Exceptions October 3, 2026 GST Hearing Notices Should Also Be Sent by SMS or Email: Madhya Pradesh HC October 3, 2026 Calcutta HC Sets Aside GST Orders Where Notice on Additional Portal Was Overlooked October 3, 2026