Summary: Ceteris paribus—Latin for “all other things being equal”—allows economists to isolate the relationship between one variable and an outcome while holding other factors constant. The assumption makes economic reasoning possible, but it can become dangerous when theoretical conclusions are applied directly to real business decisions. Prices, costs, demand, exchange rates, interest rates and customer sentiment often change simultaneously, amplifying or offsetting one another. Single-variable sensitivity analysis can identify exposure to an individual factor, whereas scenario analysis examines the effect of correlated changes. Effective decision-makers therefore use ceteris paribus to build intuition and then stress-test whether the identified relationship survives under real-world conditions. Ceteris Paribus: When “All Else Equal” Isn’t Really Equal Learning with AGM Every economics student meets ceteris paribus early—Latin for “all other things being equal.” It’s the assumption that lets economists say something clean like: “if price rises, demand falls,” without having to also account for income levels changing, tastes shifting, or a substitute product suddenly getting cheaper at the same time. It’s not a claim that the real world behaves this way. It’s a deliberate simplification—a laboratory condition. Hold every variable fixed except one, observe how that one variable moves the outcome, and you’ve isolated a relationship you can actually reason about. Without it, economics would be unable to say anything at all, because in the real world dozens of variables move together, all the time. Table of Contents▸ How Economists Use It Where It Breaks Down: Real Decisions The Real Takeaway Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); How Economists Use It The demand curve is the clearest example. When we say a price cut increases quantity demanded, we’re implicitly holding constant: Consumer income Prices of related goods (substitutes and complements) Consumer tastes and preferences Population and demographics Expectations about future prices Change any one of those, and the entire curve shifts—the price-quantity relationship you were studying is still true, but it’s no longer the whole story. Ceteris paribus doesn’t pretend those other variables don’t exist. It just studies one relationship at a time, on the understanding that you’ll add the others back in later. This is why the assumption is powerful in theory and dangerous in practice if you forget it’s an assumption. A textbook proves that a minimum wage increase, all else equal, raises unemployment among low-skill workers. That’s a valid isolated result. It says nothing about what actually happens when the minimum wage rises during a labour shortage, alongside a productivity boom, in a state cutting payroll taxes at the same time—which is the world businesses actually operate in. Where It Breaks Down: Real Decisions Business decisions rarely get the luxury of one variable moving at a time. A CFO deciding whether to raise prices isn’t just facing a demand curve—input costs, competitor pricing, currency movements, interest rates, and customer sentiment are all shifting simultaneously, often in ways that partially offset or amplify each other. A few examples of how “everyone else equal” quietly fails: A company raises prices to offset rising input costs—but a rate hike is simultaneously cooling consumer demand, so the price increase doesn’t just protect margin, it also accelerates a volume decline nobody isolated for. A rupee depreciation should make exports more competitive—except if it happens alongside a global slowdown, the demand-side collateral damage can outweigh the currency benefit entirely. A rate cut is meant to stimulate borrowing—but if it coincides with tightening credit standards or falling business confidence, the stimulative effect can be muted or reversed. This is precisely why sensitivity and scenario analysis exist as separate disciplines from single-variable modelling. A one-variable sensitivity table (“what happens to profit if revenue falls 10%, everything else held constant”) is ceteris paribus in spreadsheet form—useful for isolating exposure to one lever, but it will systematically understate risk in a world where shocks arrive correlated, not one at a time. A 2008-style credit event, an energy price shock, or a currency crisis is never a single variable moving in isolation—it’s several moving together, each one changing the others’ effect. The Real Takeaway Ceteris paribus isn’t a flaw in economic reasoning—it’s the tool that makes reasoning possible at all. The mistake isn’t using the assumption. It’s forgetting you’re still holding it when you walk into a room and make a real decision, where nothing actually stays equal. The best analysts and decision-makers use single-variable thinking to build intuition, then deliberately stress-test with multiple variables moving together before committing capital. One tells you the direction of an effect. The other tells you whether it survives contact with reality. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Government Policy Author Info Name: Arnab Mitra Qualification: Student - CA/CS/CMA Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in CA, CS, CMA 161 Legal Compliances and Legal Updates for Sep-2026 in India September 7, 2026 ICAI President’s Message: Advancing Financial Literacy, Global Professional Pathways & Financial Empowerment September 7, 2026 CA Association Seeks Extension of Tax Audit and ITR Due Dates for AY 2026-27 September 7, 2026 How Underpriced Audits Weaken Anti-Corruption Controls September 6, 2026 EY’s 1% Success Fee: NCLT Flags ICAI Ethics Issue September 5, 2026 ICSI Announces 7 New CS Exam Centres from December 2026 September 4, 2026