Summary: The “Correction not allowed: PAN already modified once” validation error can create difficulties while filing TDS correction statements where a deductee PAN has already been corrected once but another correction is subsequently required. TRACES guidance indicates that there is only one opportunity for a valid-to-valid PAN correction, making repeated PAN modification problematic in such cases. Where technically permitted by the applicable RPU/FVU and correction validation rules, practitioners may consider retaining the locked deductee record, reducing the disputed transaction values to permissible nominal amounts, releasing the corresponding challan balance and reporting the correct transaction through a fresh deductee record under the same challan. However, this nominal-value approach should not be treated as an officially prescribed or universal solution. Before adopting it, the deductor should verify the latest RPU/FVU validation rules, challan utilisation, original deduction and payment records, correct PAN documentation, applicable correction category and any interest implications under Section 201(1A). Proper working papers should also be maintained because TDS corrections can affect challan utilisation, Form 26AS, AIS/TIS and the deductee’s ability to obtain the correct TDS credit. Table of Contents▸ “Correction not allowed: PAN already modified once” in TDS Correction Statements Broad Approach to Resolve the PAN Correction Issue 1. Retain the locked PAN record 2. Reduce the disputed transaction values 3. Release the corresponding challan balance 4. Add a fresh deductee record 5. Validate through the applicable RPU/FVU Important Compliance Point TDS Correction Is More Than Changing a PAN Show all 9 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); “Correction not allowed: PAN already modified once” in TDS Correction Statements One of the most frustrating issues faced by tax deductors and professionals while filing TDS correction statements is the TRACES/FVU validation error: “Correction not allowed: PAN already modified once.” The problem becomes particularly difficult when the PAN was corrected once earlier, but a subsequent correction is required due to an error or because the correct PAN was received later. In certain correction scenarios, the PAN associated with a deductee record cannot simply be modified again through the normal correction process. This can create a practical problem: × Tax remains mapped to the incorrect PAN × Correct deductee does not receive the corresponding credit × Challan utilisation becomes difficult to reconcile × Repeated correction attempts are rejected by the FVU Where technically permitted by the relevant return utility and validation rules, practitioners may consider segregating the transaction into a new deductee record rather than attempting to modify the locked PAN again. Broad Approach to Resolve the PAN Correction Issue 1. Retain the locked PAN record Do not repeatedly attempt to change the PAN if the system has already restricted further PAN modification. TRACES guidance on PAN correction through its online correction facility states that there is only one opportunity for a Valid to Valid PAN correction. 2. Reduce the disputed transaction values The existing record may be brought down to a nominal amount, such as ₹1 payment and ₹0.01 TDS, subject to the utility’s validation rules and the actual correction circumstances. 3. Release the corresponding challan balance The reduction in TDS utilisation can create available challan capacity for allocation to the corrected deductee record. 4. Add a fresh deductee record Create a new record under the same challan with: √ Correct PAN √ Correct payment/credit amount √ Correct TDS amount TRACES correction facilities include functions relating to challan correction and deductee details, subject to the applicable correction and validation requirements. 5. Validate through the applicable RPU/FVU The correction statement should then be validated using the applicable/latest utility before submission. The Return Preparation Utility (RPU) and File Validation Utility (FVU) requirements should be checked for the relevant statement and financial year. Important Compliance Point The nominal-value approach should not be treated as a blanket or officially prescribed solution for every “PAN already modified once” case. Before using it, verify: Latest FVU/RPU validation rules Challan utilisation and available balance Original deduction and payment records Correct PAN documentation Whether the correction falls under the applicable correction category Any interest implications under Section 201(1A) Whether an alternative TRACES/AO route is required Maintain a clear working paper explaining why the original deductee record was retained and why the corrected transaction was reported separately. TDS Correction Is More Than Changing a PAN TDS correction is not merely about changing a PAN. It is about maintaining the correct relationship between: Deductee → PAN → Transaction → TDS → Challan → Tax Credit A seemingly small correction can affect Form 26AS, AIS/TIS, challan utilisation and the deductee’s ability to claim TDS credit. For tax teams and professionals, understanding the interaction between TRACES, RPU and FVU validation logic can save considerable time when routine correction options are exhausted. Have you encountered the “PAN already modified once” error in a TDS correction? What practical solution worked for you? #TDS #TRACES #TDSReturn #TDSCorrection #FVU #IncomeTax #TaxCompliance #TaxProfessionals #CharteredAccountant #DirectTax #Form26AS #AIS #TDSUpdates #CA #Taxation CA Govind Agrawal Agrawal Nayan & Associates Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under TDSTDS Return Author Info Name: CA GOVIND AGRAWAL Qualification: CA in Practice Company: AGRAWAL NAYAN & ASSOCIATES Location: Noida, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 8 View full profile → More from CA GOVIND AGRAWAL Critical Finance Terms Every Startup Founder Must Know January 10, 2026 Undertaking & Submission for Refund of Accumulated ITC under Inverted Duty Structure January 6, 2026 Appeal Strategy (Firm is listed as having availed ineligible Input Tax Credit (ITC)) January 6, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax October 2026 Statutory Compliance Calendar: GST, Income Tax, PF, ESI, FEMA, MCA & SEBI Due Dates October 4, 2026 Further Investigation Alone Does Not Justify Custodial Interrogation: Telangana HC October 4, 2026 Khadar Land Valuation and Section 69 Addition Remanded: ITAT Agra October 3, 2026 20% Profit Estimate Cut to 8% for Spare Parts Business: ITAT Cuttack October 3, 2026 ₹29.34 Crore Cryptocurrency Additions Remanded for Speaking Order: ITAT Agra October 3, 2026 Mechanical Section 151 Sanction Invalidates Reassessment: ITAT Agra October 3, 2026