George G. Demos Named Director of the PCAOB’s Division of Enforcement and Investigations WASHINGTON, Jun. 15, 2026 The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) today announced that George G. Demos has been named Director of the PCAOB’s Division of Enforcement and Investigations (DEI). In this role, he will oversee and direct the PCAOB’s investigations and enforcement of violations of its rules, professional standards, and other applicable securities regulations. “Detecting and deterring misconduct is an essential part of how the PCAOB works to improve audit quality and protect investors,” said PCAOB Chairman Demetrios (Jim) Logothetis. “George’s enforcement experience will help the PCAOB advance its goals and fulfill its mission.” Mr. Demos was formerly a litigation partner at DLA Piper LLP, where he represented companies under federal and state investigation and conducted internal corporate reviews. Previously, he served as Senior Counsel at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Division of Enforcement – leading investigations and prosecutions into accounting fraud, insider trading, and market manipulation – and has been an adjunct professor at UC Davis School of Law. Mr. Demos received a B.A. from Columbia University and a J.D. from Fordham University School of Law. “I am thankful for the opportunity to join the PCAOB, and I look forward to working with the exceptional attorneys, accountants, and other experts on the PCAOB’s enforcement staff,” said Mr. Demos. William Ryan, who was appointed Acting DEI Director in December 2025, will resume his role as DEI’s Chief Counsel, a position to which he was named in 2023. “I want to thank Bill Ryan for his distinguished service over the last six months as Acting Director,” said Chairman Logothetis. “We are fortunate to have Bill on the DEI team.” Learn more about the PCAOB’s enforcement program on the PCAOB website. *****About the PCAOBThe PCAOB is a nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee the audits of public companies in order to protect investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. The PCAOB also oversees the audits of brokers and dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including compliance reports filed pursuant to federal securities laws. Related Topics About the PCAOB