Summary: A Managing Director (MD), defined under Section 2(54) of the Companies Act, 2013, exercises substantial managerial and administrative powers, but the position does not by itself result in unlimited criminal liability. An MD may face liability under the Companies Act, Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita (BNS), Negotiable Instruments Act, SEBI Act, FEMA and labour laws where the relevant statutory provision creates liability or where personal involvement, knowledge, consent, connivance or negligence is established. Section 447 of the Companies Act provides punishment for fraud, while provisions relating to oppression and mismanagement may also have consequences for persons managing a company. Under Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, persons in charge of and responsible for the conduct of a company’s business may incur vicarious liability for cheque dishonour under Section 138. Similar “in charge of and responsible for” principles arise under other corporate regulatory statutes. Judicial decisions including Sunil Bharti Mittal v. Central Bureau of Investigation and S.M.S. Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Neeta Bhalla emphasise the distinction between corporate wrongdoing and the personal criminal responsibility of directors and officers. The central principle discussed in the article is that an MD’s designation alone is insufficient to impose criminal responsibility; liability depends upon the applicable statutory framework and the allegations and evidence concerning the MD’s own role, knowledge, consent, authorisation, connivance or negligence. Table of Contents▸ Corporate Criminal Liability of a Managing Director Criminal Liability of Managing Directors Fraud and Mismanagement Under Companies Act Criminal Liability Under BNS Cheque Dishonour and Managing Director’s Liability Liability Under SEBI Act Managing Director’s Liability Under FEMA Liability Under Labour Laws Designation Alone Does Not Create Criminal Liability Conclusion Show all 10 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Corporate Criminal Liability of a Managing Director A Managing Director, as defined in section 2 (54) of the Companies Act, is an individual entrusted with management powers. This entrustment is granted either through the company’s Articles of Association, a resolution passed by the board of directors, or a resolution from a general meeting. This Individual is given substantial powers to carry out the managerial/administrative functions of the company, which include the authority to affix the company’s seal to any document, to draw a cheque, and to sign any document that binds the company. The administrative powers are thoroughly authorised by the board of directors and are vested explicitly in the Individual designated as the Managing Director. A company may appoint two or more managing directors, as the act does not provide any restriction in this regard. In order to avoid conflict with the different MDs, it is important to mention their substantial powers of management of the company in the appointment letter, resolution or agreement. They are appointed for a period of five years and may be reappointed for an additional term. They must be between 21 and 70 years of age. The company shall, after passing a board resolution appointing the MD and subsequently obtaining shareholder approval, file Form MR-1, i.e., the return of appointment of a managing director, within 60 days from the date of such appointment. Criminal Liability of Managing Directors Managing directors may be criminally liable under sections of the Companies Act, BNS, and various other statutory provisions, which could result in fines and possible imprisonment. The following are the key areas in which the MD of a company could be criminally liable. Fraud and Mismanagement Under Companies Act Fraud, as per section 447 of the Companies Act, states an act which includes omission, concealment of any fact or abuse of position committed by any person or any other person with the connivance in any manner, with intent to deceive, to gain undue advantage from, or to injure the interests of, the company or its shareholders or its creditors or any other person, whether or not there is any wrongful gain or wrongful loss. Managing directors who are found guilty of fraud are liable to be punished with fines that extend to three times the amount involved for fraud, or imprisonment ranging from six months to ten years. A similarly placed offence is that of mismanagement, as mentioned in Section 241 of the Companies Act, wherein a prejudicial act by the company, conducted in pursuance of the managing director, could lead to his removal and prevent him from being reappointed for a period of five years. Criminal Liability Under BNS The managing director could also be made liable as per the broad provisions of BNS, which include: Criminal Breach of Trust (Section 316 (1) of BNS), Cheating (Section 318 (1) of BNS) and Forgery (Section 361(1) of BNS) In the case of Sunil Bharti Mittal v. Central Bureau of Investigation, famously known as the 2 G spectrum case, SC held that directors could be held liable for the offences of the company if there are sufficient proof of their Active role alongside the criminal intent towards the liability or if a statutory law mentions such a liability as established in the case of Sanjay Dutt and Ors. Vs. The State of Haryana and Ors. Cheque Dishonour and Managing Director’s Liability Cheque dishonor under Section 141 of the Negotiable Instruments Act says that when a company commits an offence under Section 138, every person who was “in charge of and responsible for the conduct of the business of the company” at the time of the offence shall be deemed guilty. As per the decision of SMS Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Neeta Bhall, an MD is generally presumed to be aware of the company’s affairs; they may be more readily liable under Section 141, unlike directors, where more specific averments are required to prove liability. As a reason, MDs are more readily liable under this act Liability Under SEBI Act Section 27 of the SEBI Act created vicarious liability on members for offences committed by the company. The act only makes those individuals liable who were “in charge of and responsible for the conduct of the business of the company” at the time of the violation; it doesn’t make every alternate director liable, instead, only those who have exercised operational control are the ones who are made liable, which makes the Managing director the officer in default, liable; as he often supervises the daily managerial affairs of the company directly unlike a normal director. Judicial interpretation in the case of Gurmeet Singh v. SEBI is an authoritative judgment explaining the sole liability of the MD due to his daily involvement in the affairs of the company. Managing Director’s Liability Under FEMA Under FEMA laws, MDs are made liable as per section 41(1) and (2) of the act by virtue of their position for the corresponding violation, and for violation based on their consent, neglect, or connivance. The judgement of Suborno Bose vs. Enforcement Directorate has established that FEMA violations under section 10(6) are considered continuous offense, which when read with section 41(1) makes the managing director liable even if he wasn’t in charge at the time of offense since the offence is continuous, he is liable to be prosecuted, for not to have rectified the issue in offense during his tenure. Liability Under Labour Laws Under labour laws, specifically the Industrial Disputes Act, Section 32 presumes guilt against senior managerial personnel, including the managing director, by making them liable for offences committed by the company unless they prove that the offence was committed without their knowledge or consent. Under the new labour codes, which are yet to be enforced, there is no presumption of guilt against managerial positions; instead, the liability shifts to the prosecuting party to prove the liability of the Managing Director. Designation Alone Does Not Create Criminal Liability In the case of Sanjay Dutt v. State of Haryana (2025), the court made an important clarification that managing directors cannot be prosecuted just because they hold a high office. For him to be liable, two conditions have to be fulfilled, which are: The statute must expressly create vicarious liability, and the complaint must contain clear, specific allegations showing that the MD personally consented to, authorised, was involved in, or negligently allowed the wrongful act. In this case, there was no mention of an act committed by the MD or any evidence regarding his knowledge or instructions in relation to the offence; it was simply the name of the MD, which the prosecution relied upon, believing the MD had conducted the offence. This case is also a recent testament to the fact that Managing Directors do not have unlimited liability for offences committed by the company. Conclusion In Conclusion, the managing director, even though being the highest executive position in a company with significant managerial powers, does not translate to unlimited criminal liability. Across all the statutes referred to above, the Managing Director is held liable only when the statutory law prescribes liability, as established in Sanjay Dutt v. State of Haryana, and when there is clear evidence of personal involvement, knowledge, consent, or negligence. Courts have repeatedly affirmed, including in Sunil Bharti Mittal, SMS Pharmaceuticals, Gurmeet Singh, and the recent Sanjay Dutt v. State of Haryana (2025), that designation alone is insufficient to impose criminal responsibility. Thus, designation alone doesn’t make the MD liable; it’s his proven conduct that makes an MD liable for the offence of the company. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under BNSSCompanies ActGovernment Policy Author Info Name: Advaith Vijay Qualification: Student - Others Company: National University of Advanced Legal Studies, Kochi Location: Kochi, Kerala, Kerala Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Advaith Vijay Registered Office Change: Companies Act and Other Regulatory Compliance September 23, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law MCA Extends Tenure of Eight NCLAT Members for Five Years September 23, 2026 Registered Office Change: Companies Act and Other Regulatory Compliance September 23, 2026 Different NCLT Jurisdictions in Scheme Proceedings: Filing, Transfer & Effective Date September 23, 2026 NCLT Bengaluru Refuses Arbitration Reference in Oppression and Mismanagement Petition September 23, 2026 Landmark Cars: NCLT Dispenses Meetings for Holding Company-Subsidiary Amalgamation Scheme September 23, 2026 Private Placement, Rights Issue & Preferential Allotment Procedure Under Companies Act September 21, 2026