Summary: The 57th GST Council meeting held on 8 October 2026 recommended changes concerning withdrawal of arrest power and changes to prosecution, proposed restrictions on interception of goods, opportunity of hearing against credit-ledger blocking. The Ministry of Finance press release records recommendations and, in some cases, proposals for future circulars, consultation or in-principle approval. It is not itself an amending Act, rule or rate notification. This analysis explains the precise measures described in the release, their relationship with the statutory provisions identified there, and the practical questions that remain unresolved until the implementing instruments are published. Taxpayers should continue to apply the law currently in force and should not change return positions, claim additional credits, discontinue documentation or alter rates merely on the basis of the Council announcement. Table of Contents▸ Background and legal status Withdrawal of arrest power and changes to prosecution Legal reading and implementation questions Proposed restrictions on interception of goods Legal reading and implementation questions Opportunity of hearing against credit-ledger blocking Legal reading and implementation questions Analysis Way forward Key takeaways Frequently Asked Questions Have these Council recommendations come into force? Can a taxpayer rely on the proposed relief in a current return or proceeding? Will every measure commence on the same date? Does the release settle all procedural and documentary conditions? What should advisers do before acting on the announcement? TaxGuru source and related reading Provision-by-provision legal verification and qualifications Section 69 and section 132 are separate Threshold and offence text E-way bill jurisdiction and exceptions Rule 86A hearing is on objection Show all 22 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Background and legal status The Council’s 57th meeting concentrated on process reform following earlier rate rationalisation. The press release distinguishes existing portal measures from new statutory or procedural proposals. Council recommendations require the appropriate amendment, notification, rule, circular or portal implementation, as applicable. A suggested implementation date in the release is not proof of commencement. Withdrawal of arrest power and changes to prosecution Rationalization of provisions relating to arrest and prosecution 11.1 The Council has recommended complete withdrawal of arrest powers under GST by omission of section 69 of CGST Act, 2017. 11.2 With a view to further strengthening a progressive and trust-based tax regime, while retaining effective deterrence against fraud and evasion, the Council recommended the following measures: The monetary threshold for prosecution to be raised from ₹1 crore to ₹5 crore. Omission of clause (i) of section 132(1) of the CGST Act, 2017, deletion of the words “evades tax” in clause (e) of section 132(1) and deletion of words “or in any other manner deals with” in clause (h) of section 132(1) of the CGST Act, 2017. Press-release recommendation. Amendment in clause (c) of section 132(1) of the CGST Act, 2017, to cover only offence of fraudulent availment of ITC without receipt of goods or services or without invoice or bill. Rationalizing the amount of punishment for various offences under section 132 of the CGST Act, 2017. Rationalization of provisions relating to E-way Bill Press-release recommendation. The GST Council recommended amendments in section 68, section 129 and section 130 of the CGST Act, 2017 so as to provide that, – a conveyance carrying goods can be intercepted only on specific intelligence and with the authorisation of an officer not below the rank of Joint Commissioner. Inspection and further action for detention or seizure can be taken when either the supplier, or the recipient, is located or registered in the State where interception is being made. No interception in the transit States. Press-release recommendation. Where no e-way bill has been generated, or the conveyance is not carrying any document to show the origin or destination of the goods, as the case may be, the goods can be inspected, detained or seized, irrespective of the jurisdiction. Provision of confiscation of goods/conveyances under section 130 of CGST Act not applicable in respect of goods/conveyances in transit. This will enable smooth movement of goods and conveyances and will improve businesses supplies and transportation efficiency. Legal reading and implementation questions The recommendation must be tested against the final statutory or delegated instrument: the operative wording, class of eligible persons or supplies, procedural conditions, effective date, and treatment of past periods. Until those elements are notified, this section describes a proposal rather than a presently enforceable entitlement or restriction. Proposed restrictions on interception of goods Rationalization of provisions relating to E-way Bill Press-release recommendation. The GST Council recommended amendments in section 68, section 129 and section 130 of the CGST Act, 2017 so as to provide that, – a conveyance carrying goods can be intercepted only on specific intelligence and with the authorisation of an officer not below the rank of Joint Commissioner. Inspection and further action for detention or seizure can be taken when either the supplier, or the recipient, is located or registered in the State where interception is being made. No interception in the transit States. Press-release recommendation. Where no e-way bill has been generated, or the conveyance is not carrying any document to show the origin or destination of the goods, as the case may be, the goods can be inspected, detained or seized, irrespective of the jurisdiction. Provision of confiscation of goods/conveyances under section 130 of CGST Act not applicable in respect of goods/conveyances in transit. This will enable smooth movement of goods and conveyances and will improve businesses supplies and transportation efficiency. Legal reading and implementation questions The recommendation must be tested against the final statutory or delegated instrument: the operative wording, class of eligible persons or supplies, procedural conditions, effective date, and treatment of past periods. Until those elements are notified, this section describes a proposal rather than a presently enforceable entitlement or restriction. Opportunity of hearing against credit-ledger blocking Amendment in rule 86A of the CGST Rules, 2017 to provide for opportunity of being heard to the taxpayer : The GST Council recommended amendment in rule 86A of the CGST Rules, 2017 to provide a mechanism for enabling a taxpayer to file an objection against blocking of any amount in electronic credit ledger and to avail a personal hearing before the proper officer takes a decision on such objection. Legal reading and implementation questions The recommendation must be tested against the final statutory or delegated instrument: the operative wording, class of eligible persons or supplies, procedural conditions, effective date, and treatment of past periods. Until those elements are notified, this section describes a proposal rather than a presently enforceable entitlement or restriction. Analysis The proposed omission of section 69 concerns arrest under the CGST Act; it does not by itself repeal section 132 offences or dispose of existing proceedings. The announced higher prosecution threshold, narrowed offence descriptions and punishment rationalisation require the final amending text to determine coverage and transitional treatment. The interception proposal contains both restrictions and express exceptions; a taxpayer should not read it as an unconditional prohibition on checking vehicles. Way forward First, identify the relevant Act amendment, rule amendment, rate notification or circular when issued. Second, compare its wording with the Council announcement; the final text may narrow, qualify or stage the measure. Third, confirm the commencement clause and any retrospective or transitional provision. Fourth, update compliance procedures only after checking whether portal changes, prescribed forms and administrative instructions are available. Key takeaways The 8 October 2026 press release is the primary source for the proposals discussed here. A recommendation, in-principle approval or proposed circular does not itself change the operative law. Where the release identifies thresholds, dates or exceptions, the final legal text must be checked before applying them. Existing statutory filing, payment, record-keeping and appeal obligations continue until lawfully changed. Frequently Asked Questions Have these Council recommendations come into force? Not merely by publication of the press release. The applicable amendments, notifications, rules or circulars and their commencement provisions must be examined. Can a taxpayer rely on the proposed relief in a current return or proceeding? Only if the relevant legal instrument is effective and the taxpayer satisfies its conditions. The announcement alone is insufficient. Will every measure commence on the same date? The release refers to different proposed implementation arrangements. Each measure must be checked separately against its eventual legal instrument. Does the release settle all procedural and documentary conditions? No. Several recommendations expressly contemplate further rule changes, circulars, portal modifications or consultation. What should advisers do before acting on the announcement? Maintain the current-law position, identify the specific recommendation, and track the final text, commencement and any transitional provision. TaxGuru source and related reading Principal press release: 57th GST Council Meeting – TaxGuru Provision-by-provision legal verification and qualifications Section 69 and section 132 are separate The release proposes omission of section 69, but does not propose repeal of section 132. Arrest under the present CGST statute and prosecution for listed offences must therefore be analysed separately. The current constitutional position of section 69 under Supreme Court jurisprudence remains relevant until an effective amendment. Threshold and offence text The release proposes raising the monetary threshold for prosecution from ₹1 crore to ₹5 crore, omission of section 132(1)(i), deletion of specified phrases in clauses (e) and (h), and narrowing clause (c) to fraudulent ITC availment without goods/services or without invoice/bill. Do not describe all wrongful ITC claims as decriminalised. E-way bill jurisdiction and exceptions The proposed intelligence-based interception requires authorisation of an officer not below Joint Commissioner. The transit-State limitation has explicit exceptions where an e-way bill is absent or the conveyance lacks origin/destination documentation. The proposal to disapply section 130 to goods/conveyances in transit is not an immediate statutory immunity. Rule 86A hearing is on objection The Council recommends a mechanism to object to blocking and to receive a personal hearing before the proper officer decides that objection. The release does not promise a hearing before the initial block. Verified TaxGuru internal references Primary source: 57th GST Council recommendations as published on TaxGuru Related analysis: Supreme Court treatment of GST arrest power Related analysis: Existing GST arrest and prosecution provisions Related analysis: Section 129 detention and safeguards Related analysis: Rule 86A and pre-decisional hearing case Related analysis: E-way bill detention and confiscation framework ***** Disclaimer: This article is an editorial explanation of the recommendations recorded in the Ministry of Finance press release dated 8 October 2026. It is not a statement that any proposed amendment has commenced. Readers must verify the relevant enacted law, notifications, rules, circulars and judicial developments before acting. TaxGuru accepts no responsibility for decisions taken solely on the basis of this article. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Council Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,472 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi E-Invoice Lapse Without Proven Tax Evasion: GSTAT Deletes ₹63.72 Lakh Penalty October 9, 2026 Paper Business Demerger Scheme Advances to Shareholder and Creditor Meetings: NCLT Allahabad October 9, 2026 Assessment Order Does Not Bar Section 119(2)(b) Condonation: Gujarat HC October 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Multiple Tax Periods Cannot Be Clubbed in One GST Assessment Order: Andhra Pradesh HC October 9, 2026 SC Bhandari Scrap Traders Ruling: Limits on GST ITC Denial in Supply Chains October 9, 2026 Missing E-Way Bill Attracts GST Penalty but Tax Invoice Warrants Section 129(1)(a): Allahabad HC October 9, 2026 GST Penalty for Wrong Transport Route Quashed by Allahabad High Court October 9, 2026 Punjab and Haryana HC Grants Bail in ₹30 Crore Fake ITC Case October 9, 2026 Telangana HC Grants Two Weeks to Appeal Against GST Refund Rejection Order October 8, 2026