Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) organised a Convocation Ceremony simultaneously across 23 locations in India on September 12, 2026, to confer Certificates of Membership on newly qualified Chartered Accountants and felicitate rank holders. A total of 8,964 newly enrolled Chartered Accountants were formally inducted into the Chartered Accountancy profession. The ceremonial event was inaugurated in Delhi by Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal, Hon’ble Union Minister of State (IC) of Law and Justice and Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs, in the presence of CA. Prasanna Kumar D, President, ICAI, CA. Mangesh Kinare, Vice-President, ICAI, and Central and Regional Council Members of ICAI. Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal described Chartered Accountants as custodians of trust and highlighted their contribution to India’s economic system and GDP, while urging the newly qualified professionals to uphold integrity, accountability and the values represented by ICAI. CA. Prasanna Kumar D congratulated the new members and emphasised continuous learning, professional excellence, ethical conduct and the trust placed in Chartered Accountants by society. CA. Mangesh Kinare also welcomed the newly inducted members and stressed excellence, independence and integrity as fundamental pillars of the profession. The President, ICAI administered the oath to the newly inducted members. ICAI conducts Convocation ceremonies twice every year to formally welcome newly enrolled members and award Certificates of Membership. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India is a statutory body established under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 for the regulation and development of the profession of Chartered Accountancy in India and functions under the administrative supervision of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India Public Relations Committee The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India September 12, 2026 ICAI Press Release ICAI Organises Convocation Ceremony Across 23 Centres; Conferring Membership Certificates to 8,964 Newly Qualified Chartered Accountants The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) today organized Convocation Ceremony simultaneously across 23 locations in India to confer certificates of membership to newly qualified Chartered Accountants and felicitate rank holders. The Convocation was held at New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Nagpur, Pune, Bengaluru, Coimbatore, Ernakulam, Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar, Bhopal, Guwahati, Ghaziabad, Indore, Lucknow, Jaipur, Ranchi, Raipur, Chandigarh, Ludhiana. A total of 8,964 newly enrolled Chartered Accountants were awarded their Certificates of Membership and formally entered the prestigious Chartered Accountancy profession. The Convocation started concurrently across all centers, marking a moment of collective celebration pan-India. The ceremonial event was formally inaugurated in Delhi by the Chief Guest, Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal, Hon’ble Union Minister of State (IC) of Law and Justice and Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs, in the presence of CA. Prasanna Kumar D, President, ICAI and CA. Mangesh Kinare, Vice-President, ICAI, along with the Central and Regional Council Members of ICAI. The Convocation at various centres was led by esteemed Council Members of the ICAI ensuring seamless celebrations nationwide. While addressing the gathering from Delhi, Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal, Hon’ble Union Minister of State (IC) of Law and Justice and Minister of State of Parliamentary Affairs, stated, “CAs are custodians of trust. You do not just prepare balance sheets but also strengthen the balance sheet of trust in India’s economic system. You also contribute to the growth of India’s GDP. There are a lot of new opportunities to explore and contributions to be made across various fields. He further added, ICAI stands for I – Integrity, C – Confidence, A – Accountability and I – India First. I am sure you will imbibe these values and become architects of growth for your profession and contribute to Viksit Bharat 2047.” On this occasion, CA. Prasanna Kumar D, President, ICAI, congratulated the newly enrolled Chartered Accountants and said, “This is a proud and memorable milestone in your journey. Behind your success lies the unwavering support and sacrifices of your family, friends and teachers, whose contribution you should always value and respect. As you embark on your professional journey, remember that learning never stops. ICAI offers a wide range of post-qualification courses and continuous learning opportunities to help you enhance your knowledge and professional capabilities. He further added, “The two letters ‘CA’ represent trust, credibility, responsibility and accountability. Society places immense faith in Chartered Accountants, and I urge each one of you to uphold this trust through integrity, professional excellence and ethical conduct. Carry the CA identity with pride and always strive to be worthy of the confidence that society reposes in you.” The President, ICAI, also administered the oath to the newly inducted members, formally welcoming them into the prestigious Chartered Accountancy fraternity. CA. Mangesh Kinare, Vice-President, ICAI, congratulated the newly inducted CAs and welcomed them to the distinguished fraternity of the world’s largest accounting body, stating, “As you enter the profession, you shoulder a great responsibility and carry the expectations and trust of society. The journey ahead calls for a commitment to excellence, independence and integrity, which are the fundamental pillars of the Chartered Accountancy profession. I urge each one of you to uphold these values in every professional endeavour and contribute meaningfully to the growth of the nation and the profession.” ICAI conducts Convocation ceremonies twice every year to formally welcome newly enrolled members into the Chartered Accountancy fraternity. The event symbolizes not only academic and professional accomplishment, but also the beginning of a lifelong commitment towards excellence, accountability and nation building. The President ICAI also administered the oath to the newly inducted members. ICAI conducts convocation twice a year to award the Certificate of Membership to newly enrolled members, celebrating their entry into the CA fraternity. This prestigious event serves as a platform to unite young professionals under the esteemed Chartered Accountancy fraternity, fostering a deep sense of belonging and connection with both the profession and the Institute. Through rigorous training and a stringent examination process, only individuals who demonstrate outstanding knowledge, intelligence, dedication and proficiency are qualified to become Chartered Accountants. About ICAI The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) is a statutory body set up by an Act of Parliament under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 for the regulation and development of the profession of Chartered Accountancy in India. The Institute functions under the administrative supervision of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India. With over 15 Lakh Members and Students, today ICAI is the largest professional accountancy body in the world. ICAI has a wide network of 5 Regional Councils and 186 Branches within India and a global presence with 55 Overseas Chapters and 30 Representative Offices spanning 85 cities across 47 Countries worldwide. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under chartered accountantsICAI Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in CA, CS, CMA Chandigarh CAs Seek Extension of Tax Audit, 10B/10BB & ITR Due Dates for AY 2026-27 September 15, 2026 UAE Corporate Tax Exempt Income: Participation, PE and Transport Rules September 13, 2026 Audit Manual 2025-2026 – Small & Medium Enterprises with Editable Formats September 11, 2026 Ceteris Paribus: When All Else Isn’t Equal September 9, 2026 161 Legal Compliances and Legal Updates for Sep-2026 in India September 7, 2026 ICAI President’s Message: Advancing Financial Literacy, Global Professional Pathways & Financial Empowerment September 7, 2026