Summary: The introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on 1 July 2017 fundamentally restructured India’s indirect-tax system by replacing multiple Central and State levies with a destination-based tax on supplies. Nearly a decade later, GST has delivered substantial gains in revenue mobilisation, taxpayer formalisation, economic integration and digital tax administration, while remaining an incomplete reform in terms of simplicity and legal certainty. The constitutional framework under Articles 246A, 269A and 279A enables concurrent participation of the Union and States, with the GST Council serving as the principal institution of fiscal coordination. Input Tax Credit under Sections 16 and 17 of the CGST Act remains central to preventing cascading taxation, although statutory restrictions and compliance dependencies have generated significant litigation. GST collections and registrations have expanded considerably, inter-State commerce now operates through a broadly unified credit mechanism, and registration, returns, payments, e-way bills and invoice-related processes have become increasingly digital. However, multiple tax slabs, classification disputes, recurring procedural changes, ITC restrictions and compliance burdens continue to complicate the regime. The delayed operationalisation of the GST Appellate Tribunal also left taxpayers without the intended specialist appellate forum for several years. GST has therefore achieved considerable success in creating a common national indirect-tax architecture and formalising economic activity, but its next phase must focus on rate rationalisation, taxpayer certainty, balanced ITC rules, effective dispute resolution and simpler compliance. GST AT A GLANCE: HAS THE TAX REFORM DELIVERED ITS PROMISED BENEFITS? Table of Contents▸ PART I – INTRODUCTION PART II – LEGAL FRAMEWORK Constitutional Structure of GST Input Tax Credit: The Core Mechanism The GST Council and Cooperative Federalism PART III – CONTEMPORARY / PRACTICAL ANALYSIS 1. Revenue Performance: A Significant Achievement 2. Creation of a Common National Market 3. Digitalisation and Formalisation 4. Rate Rationalisation: Progress, but “One Tax” Remains Aspirational 5. Dispute Resolution and the GST Appellate Tribunal PART IV – CRITICAL DISCUSSION PART V – CONCLUSION AND SUGGESTIONS Show all 13 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); PART I – INTRODUCTION The introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on 1 July 2017 represented one of the most significant changes in India’s indirect tax system since Independence. It replaced a fragmented structure of Central and State levies—including central excise duty, service tax, State VAT and several other indirect taxes—with a destination-based tax on the supply of goods and services. The reform was popularly associated with the idea of “One Nation, One Tax, One Market.” The constitutional foundation of GST was created through the Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016. Article 246A confers concurrent GST-legislative powers upon Parliament and State Legislatures, Article 269A governs inter-State supplies, while Article 279A establishes the GST Council as the principal institution for coordination between the Union and the States.[1] Nearly a decade after GST’s introduction, the relevant question is no longer whether GST was an ambitious reform, but whether it has actually delivered the benefits that justified such a fundamental restructuring of India’s tax system. On several measurable indicators, the answer is positive. GST revenues have grown substantially, the taxpayer base has expanded, inter-State commerce has become more integrated and tax administration has become increasingly digital. At the same time, India’s GST cannot yet be described as an entirely simple or frictionless tax. Multiple tax rates, extensive compliance requirements, recurring disputes over input tax credit (ITC), frequent changes in the law and the delayed establishment of an effective appellate mechanism have prevented the system from fully achieving its original simplicity objective. GST’s performance is therefore best understood as a substantial success in economic integration and tax administration, but an incomplete success in simplification and legal certainty. PART II – LEGAL FRAMEWORK Constitutional Structure of GST GST differs from India’s earlier indirect-tax regime because both the Union and the States participate in taxing the same transaction. Article 246A gives both levels of government legislative competence over GST, subject to Parliament’s exclusive authority in relation to inter-State supplies under Article 269A. This constitutional arrangement is implemented through the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act), corresponding State GST enactments and the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (IGST Act). For intra-State transactions, tax is generally divided into Central GST (CGST) and State GST (SGST), while inter-State supplies attract IGST. The IGST mechanism allows revenue to accrue to the destination State, reflecting GST’s character as a destination-based consumption tax.[1] Input Tax Credit: The Core Mechanism One of GST’s central promises was the reduction of the cascading or “tax-on-tax” effect. Section 16 of the CGST Act permits a registered person, subject to statutory conditions, to claim credit for input tax paid on goods or services used in the course or furtherance of business.[2] For example, if a manufacturer purchases raw material for ₹1,00,000 and pays GST on that purchase, the input tax can ordinarily be set off against GST payable when the finished product is sold. In principle, GST therefore taxes the value added at successive stages rather than repeatedly taxing the full value of the product. However, ITC remains subject to numerous statutory conditions and restrictions, including those under Section 17 of the CGST Act. This has made ITC one of the most litigated areas of GST law. In Chief Commissioner of CGST v. Safari Retreats Pvt. Ltd., 2024 INSC 756, the Supreme Court examined restrictions under Section 17(5) concerning construction of immovable property and emphasised the statutory scheme governing credit.[3] The GST Council and Cooperative Federalism The GST Council under Article 279A brings together representatives of the Union and State Governments to make recommendations on rates, exemptions, thresholds and other aspects of GST. Its constitutional character received significant judicial examination in Union of India v. Mohit Minerals Pvt. Ltd., (2022) 10 SCC 700. The Supreme Court held that GST Council recommendations are not mechanically binding on Parliament and State Legislatures, and situated the Council within the broader structure of cooperative federalism.[4] GST is therefore not simply a Central tax administered across India. It is a constitutional arrangement requiring continuous fiscal coordination between governments that retain separate legislative authority. PART III – CONTEMPORARY / PRACTICAL ANALYSIS 1. Revenue Performance: A Significant Achievement The strongest evidence in GST’s favour is its revenue performance. According to official Government data, gross GST collections during FY 2024–25 reached approximately ₹22.08 lakh crore, an increase of 9.4 per cent over the preceding year. The number of active GST taxpayers had also crossed 1.51 crore.[5] The Economic Survey 2025–26 records a broader structural change: the GST taxpayer base increased from about 60 lakh in 2017 to more than 1.5 crore, indicating substantial formalisation of economic activity. It also records strong growth in e-way bill volumes, reflecting increased visibility of commercial transactions within the formal tax system.[6] Revenue growth alone cannot prove that every aspect of GST has succeeded; collections may also increase due to economic growth, inflation, enforcement or rate changes. Nevertheless, the sustained expansion of both registrations and collections strongly suggests that GST has widened the observable tax base and strengthened revenue mobilisation. 2. Creation of a Common National Market Before GST, businesses selling goods across State borders frequently encountered different VAT systems, entry taxes, forms and State-specific compliance requirements. GST substantially changed this architecture. The IGST mechanism allows inter-State trade to operate within a common credit structure rather than treating every State border as a separate indirect-tax barrier. This has particular importance for businesses operating national supply chains. A manufacturer in Punjab selling to customers in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Haryana now operates within a broadly unified GST framework rather than navigating independent State-level indirect-tax systems for each transaction. GST has therefore come considerably closer to delivering the “One Market” element of its promise than the literal “One Tax” element. 3. Digitalisation and Formalisation GST’s most transformative achievement may be administrative rather than purely doctrinal. Registration, return filing, tax payment, e-way bills, refund applications and an increasing number of invoice-related functions operate electronically. E-invoicing has further integrated invoice information with return and e-way bill systems.[1] For government, this creates a stronger data trail and improves the ability to compare transactions reported by suppliers and purchasers. For compliant businesses, it reduces dependence on physical visits to tax offices. Yet the same system creates a new form of dependency: substantive tax rights increasingly depend upon technological compliance. Supplier errors, invoice mismatches and portal-related issues can affect the recipient’s ability to claim ITC even where the underlying transaction is genuine. Digitalisation therefore reduces traditional paperwork while simultaneously increasing the importance of accurate digital compliance. 4. Rate Rationalisation: Progress, but “One Tax” Remains Aspirational India did not adopt a single-rate GST. Multiple slabs continue to operate, accompanied by exemptions and special treatment for particular supplies. The Government has progressively rationalised the rate structure and reduced the number of goods in the highest slab through successive GST Council decisions.[1] The continued need for rate rationalisation demonstrates responsiveness, but also exposes a structural difficulty. Every distinction between rates creates potential classification disputes. Businesses must determine not merely whether a transaction is taxable, but its classification, applicable rate, place of supply, eligibility for credit and, in some cases, whether it is a supply of goods, services, or a composite or mixed supply. Thus, “One Nation, One Tax” should not be understood literally. India has achieved a common tax framework, but not a single rate or uniformly simple liability. 5. Dispute Resolution and the GST Appellate Tribunal A significant weakness of the GST regime has been the long delay in making the Goods and Services Tax Appellate Tribunal (GSTAT) fully functional. For several years after GST was introduced, taxpayers frequently had to approach High Courts because the intended specialist appellate forum was not effectively available. The position has begun to improve with the operationalisation of GSTAT benches in 2026.[7] This strengthens the institutional structure but also highlights an important limitation of the reform: a nationwide tax introduced in 2017 functioned for years without its complete specialist appellate architecture. A tax system cannot be assessed only by how efficiently it collects revenue; timely and accessible remedies for taxpayers are equally important. PART IV – CRITICAL DISCUSSION GST’s experience reveals a tension between economic integration and regulatory complexity. First, GST reduced one form of complexity by subsuming several earlier taxes, yet created another through a dense network of statutory provisions, rules, notifications, circulars, rate classifications and digital reporting requirements. Second, the ITC mechanism is economically fundamental but legally conditional. The closer administration moves toward invoice-level matching, the more a purchaser’s tax position may depend upon correct compliance by another business. The difficult policy question is how to combat fraudulent credit without imposing disproportionate consequences upon bona fide purchasers. Third, the GST Council is an innovative institution of fiscal federalism, but policy changes require continuous consensus-building between governments with different revenue interests. Mohit Minerals is important because it confirms that GST operates within a federal Constitution rather than through complete fiscal centralisation.[4] Fourth, compliance costs are not distributed equally. A large corporation can maintain specialised tax teams and automated enterprise systems. For small and medium enterprises, repeated reconciliations, classification questions and procedural changes can represent a proportionately greater burden. Finally, growing collections should not become the sole measure of success. The objective of tax administration is not merely to maximise revenue. It must also provide certainty, neutrality, fairness and manageable compliance. A system that collects more tax but generates avoidable litigation or recurring uncertainty cannot be considered fully successful. PART V – CONCLUSION AND SUGGESTIONS GST has unquestionably transformed India’s indirect-tax landscape. It has integrated markets, enlarged the formal taxpayer base, created a nationwide digital compliance infrastructure and generated strong revenue collections. In these respects, the reform has delivered substantial parts of what it promised. However, the claim that GST has produced a completely simple system is harder to sustain. India’s next phase of GST reform should therefore focus less on constructing the system and more on refining it. Rate rationalisation should continue with the objective of reducing unnecessary classifications and disputes. ITC rules should strike a better balance between fraud prevention and protection of genuine taxpayers acting in good faith. GSTAT benches should become fully functional and practically accessible across the country. Frequent procedural changes should be minimised so that taxpayers have greater certainty and time to adapt. Technology should increasingly be used to eliminate repetitive compliance, not merely to intensify enforcement. The experience of nearly a decade demonstrates that GST should neither be portrayed as an unquestionable success nor dismissed as a failed experiment. It has succeeded most clearly in creating one national indirect-tax architecture and a more formal, digitally visible market. Its unfinished task is to make that architecture simpler, more predictable and less burdensome. The real test for the next decade of GST will therefore not merely be whether collections continue to rise, but whether India can combine revenue efficiency with taxpayer certainty, cooperative federalism and genuine ease of compliance. Refrences [1] GST Council, Government of India, “About GST / GST Council”, https://gstcouncil.gov.in/ (last accessed 20 September 2026). [2] Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, particularly Sections 16 and 17; Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, https://cbic-gst.gov.in/. [3] Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. Safari Retreats Pvt. Ltd. & Ors., 2024 INSC 756, Supreme Court of India. [4] Union of India v. Mohit Minerals Pvt. Ltd., (2022) 10 SCC 700; 2022 INSC 596. [5] Press Information Bureau, Government of India, “Eight Years of GST”, 30 June 2025. [6] Government of India, Economic Survey 2025–26, chapter on Fiscal Developments, Ministry of Finance. [7] Press Information Bureau / Ministry of Finance releases concerning operationalisation of GST Appellate Tribunal benches during 2026. [8] Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs. [9] Constitution of India, Articles 246A, 269A and 279A. **** Author Name: Jasleen Kaur Sabherwal | Institution: Lovely Professional University | Course Year: Final Year Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Portal to Be Activated Within 48 Hours If Registration Found Bona Fide: Calcutta HC September 22, 2026 Physical GST Revocation Filing Allowed if Online Filing Fails: Telangana HC September 22, 2026 Same Part, Same HSN Code for Years and Now a Big GST Demand September 22, 2026 GST TCS under Section 52: E-Commerce Operators Tax Compliance September 22, 2026 Composition Scheme Under GST: Simplified Compliance Or Limited Tax Flexibility? September 22, 2026 Merger-Related ITC Dispute Requires Division Bench Hearing: GSTAT Chennai September 22, 2026