Change of Objects Clause in a Section 8 Company – Will 12A and 80G Registration Be Lost? Brief: A Section 8 company’s licence under the Companies Act and its income-tax registration are separate approvals. Altering the objects clause requires prior approval under Section 8(4)(i) of the Companies Act, 2013, followed by the required corporate filings. The alteration does not, by itself, cancel the company’s tax registration or donor-deduction approval. However, where the modified objects do not conform to the conditions of tax registration, an application under Section 332 of the Income-tax Act, 2025 is required within 30 days of adopting or undertaking the modification. The company should compare every proposed object with its existing registration before seeking approval and separately review its donor-deduction approval under Section 354. Table of Contents▸ Short Answer Applicable Legal Provisions Legal Position Company-law approval and tax eligibility are separate Conforming and non-conforming alterations When should the 30 days be counted? Donor-deduction approval Practical Steps Example Conclusion FAQs 1. Is tax registration automatically cancelled when the objects change? 2. Can a Section 8 company add a commercial activity if its profits are used for its main objects? Show all 13 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Short Answer No. A change in the objects clause does not automatically extinguish a Section 8 company’s tax registration or donor-deduction approval. The company must obtain prior approval for altering its memorandum under Section 8(4)(i) of the Companies Act, 2013, and complete the applicable special-resolution and registration requirements under Section 13. If the modified objects do not conform to the conditions of its income-tax registration, it must make the prescribed application within 30 days of adopting or undertaking the modification. Failure to address a non-conforming change can put the exemption at risk and may attract the accreted-income provisions, subject to their statutory conditions. Applicable Legal Provisions Section 8(1), Companies Act, 2013: Prescribes the permitted objects, application of profits towards those objects, and prohibition on dividends. Section 8(4)(i), Companies Act, 2013: Requires prior approval for alteration of a Section 8 company’s memorandum or articles. The applicable delegated authority and filing route should be checked when preparing the application. Section 13, Companies Act, 2013: Governs alteration of the memorandum by special resolution, filing and registration. Under Section 13(10), an alteration has no effect until registered. Section 110 and Rule 22 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014: Postal-ballot requirements must be assessed in light of the company’s status and applicable exemptions. Sections 332, 352 and 354, Income-tax Act, 2025: Address registration of a non-profit organisation, tax on accreted income in specified circumstances, and approval relevant to donor deductions, respectively. FCRA: If the company holds FCRA registration or prior permission, the effect of the alteration and any reporting requirement should be checked separately. Legal Position Company-law approval and tax eligibility are separate Section 8(1)(a) permits objects including commerce, art, science, sports, education, research, social welfare, religion, charity and protection of the environment. Income-tax exemption has its own conditions concerning charitable purpose. An object acceptable for a Section 8 licence will not necessarily qualify under the income-tax provisions applicable to a registered non-profit organisation. Conforming and non-conforming alterations Conforming alteration: If the revised objects remain within the conditions of the existing tax registration, the alteration does not, merely because it was made, require a fresh application on the ground of non-conformity. The company should retain a written comparison of the old objects, revised objects and registration conditions. Non-conforming alteration: If the revised objects do not conform to those conditions, Section 332 prescribes an application within 30 days of the date of adoption or modification. The company must also examine the accreted-income consequences under Section 352 rather than assume that continuing to hold an earlier registration protects its exemption. When should the 30 days be counted? Section 332 refers to the date of adoption or modification. Section 13(10) of the Companies Act provides that an alteration of the memorandum takes effect only on registration. Because these provisions address different steps, the company should plan the tax application from the earliest potentially relevant date, including the date on which it adopts the special resolution, and obtain advice on the filing sequence for its facts. It should not wait until the end of a disputed limitation period. Donor-deduction approval Registration for the organisation’s own exemption and approval relevant to donors’ deductions are distinct matters. A change of objects should therefore be reviewed against both the existing registration and the conditions of approval under Section 354. The company should check the current prescribed form and reporting requirements before assuming that an application concerning its own registration also addresses donor approval. Practical Steps Compare each proposed object with the existing Section 8 licence, tax-registration order and donor-approval order. Identify whether the proposed activity is charitable under the applicable income-tax definition and whether any commercial receipts or private benefits create a separate concern. Obtain prior approval under Section 8(4)(i), pass the required resolution, and complete the applicable filings and registration under Section 13. If the alteration is non-conforming, prepare and file the prescribed Section 332 application within the statutory period. Review Section 354 approval separately. Where applicable, update FCRA records and inform banks, grant-makers and donors after the alteration takes effect. Example Arogya Seva Foundation, a Section 8 company registered for medical relief, proposes to add paid corporate fitness events to its objects. The company cannot conclude that the new object is covered by its income-tax registration merely because it may be acceptable under company law. It must examine the precise wording of its registration, the nature and beneficiaries of the proposed activity, and the applicable income-tax conditions. Adding community health education may present a different case, but it too should be checked against the existing registration rather than treated as automatically conforming. Conclusion A Section 8 company should settle the tax implications while drafting its revised objects. Prior approval and registration under the Companies Act are necessary for the memorandum alteration; they do not decide the company’s income-tax eligibility. Where the revised objects do not conform to the conditions of tax registration, the company must address the 30-day application requirement under Section 332 and separately review its donor-deduction approval. FAQs 1. Is tax registration automatically cancelled when the objects change? No automatic cancellation follows merely from an alteration. The effect depends on the revised objects, the conditions of registration and compliance with the applicable tax provisions. 2. Can a Section 8 company add a commercial activity if its profits are used for its main objects? Applying profits to the company’s objects is a Section 8 requirement, but it does not by itself establish income-tax eligibility. The proposed activity and its receipts must be tested under the applicable tax provisions and registration conditions. Author – CS Divesh Goyal, GOYAL DIVESH & ASSOCIATES, Company Secretary in Practice, Delhi. Email: [email protected] Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013Section 12ASection 80G Author Info Name: CS Divesh Goyal Qualification: CS Company: Goyal Divesh & Associates Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 768 View full profile → More from CS Divesh Goyal How to Change Name of a Section 8 Company – Steps, Forms and Restrictions September 25, 2026 Stamp Duty on Transmission of Shares vs Transfer of Shares – Documents & Process September 25, 2026 Section 8 Company Exemptions Apply Only Subject to Filing Compliance September 25, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law MCA Cautions Public Against High-Return Promises by Non-Compliant Nidhi Companies September 24, 2026 ICAI Announces CA Foundation and Intermediate January 2027 Examination Schedule September 24, 2026 Mudra Denim Ordered Into Liquidation After 99.89% CoC Approval: NCLT Mumbai September 24, 2026 Can a Board Meeting and General Meeting Be Held on the Same Day? September 24, 2026 Managing Director Criminal Liability Depends on Statutory & Personal Involvement September 23, 2026 MCA Extends Tenure of Eight NCLAT Members for Five Years September 23, 2026