Summary: Input Tax Credit (ITC) is a central feature of GST that permits a registered person, subject to statutory conditions and restrictions, to take credit of eligible input tax on supplies used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of business. Section 16 of the CGST Act establishes the basic entitlement and requires compliance relating to tax documents, receipt of goods or services, supplier reporting and other statutory conditions. GSTR-2B has become an important reconciliation document, although taxpayers must independently assess legal eligibility. The framework also includes the 180-day payment condition, the time limit under section 16(4), and the retrospective relief introduced through sections 16(5) and 16(6) by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2024. Section 17 governs apportionment and blocked credits, including specified restrictions relating to motor vehicles, certain personal-use expenditure and construction-related supplies. Judicial decisions including Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax v. Safari Retreats Private Limited and M/s McLeod Russel India Limited v. Union of India & Ors. illustrate contemporary disputes concerning ITC restrictions and supplier-side defaults. Effective ITC compliance therefore requires alignment between legal eligibility, commercial documentation, supplier reporting, GSTR-2B reconciliation, vendor payments, statutory deadlines and blocked-credit reviews. Table of Contents▸ Input Tax Credit under GST: Eligibility, Conditions and Compliance Abstract Introduction Legal Framework 1. Basic eligibility under Section 16 2. Supplier reporting and GSTR-2B 3. Payment to supplier within 180 days 4. Time limit under Section 16(4) 5. Restrictions and blocked credits under Section 17 Contemporary / Practical Analysis Example: ITC claimed by a manufacturer Contemporary judicial issue: supplier default and bona fide recipients ITC eligibility checklist Critical Discussion Conclusion and Suggestions References Show all 16 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Input Tax Credit under GST: Eligibility, Conditions and Compliance Abstract Input Tax Credit (ITC) is one of the central features of India’s Goods and Services Tax system. It allows a registered person, subject to statutory conditions and restrictions, to take credit of eligible input tax charged on supplies used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of business. The mechanism is intended to reduce cascading of taxes, but ITC is not an unconditional entitlement. Section 16 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act), read with sections 17 and 18 and the CGST Rules, establishes a detailed framework governing eligibility, documentation, receipt of supplies, supplier reporting, payment to suppliers, time limits and reversals. This blog explains those requirements and examines contemporary compliance issues, including GSTR-2B-based reconciliation and the judicial debate concerning supplier-side defaults. Introduction GST was designed around the principle that tax paid at one stage of the supply chain should ordinarily be available as credit at the next stage, subject to the statutory framework. This mechanism prevents the same value from being repeatedly taxed without credit and helps GST operate as a value-added tax. However, the expression “input tax credit” should not be understood as an automatic refund of every GST amount paid by a business. Section 16(1) of the CGST Act provides the basic entitlement. A registered person may take credit of input tax charged on supplies of goods or services or both that are used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of business, subject to prescribed conditions and restrictions. The credit is credited to the electronic credit ledger (CGST Act, 2017, s. 16(1)). The practical importance of ITC is substantial. A business purchasing raw materials, professional services, rent or eligible capital goods may use lawful input tax credit to discharge output GST. At the same time, inaccurate invoices, non-reflection of supplier invoices, failure to receive goods or services, non-payment within the statutory period, blocked credits and delayed claims can lead to denial or reversal of ITC. The modern GST system therefore requires both substantive eligibility and disciplined compliance. Legal Framework 1. Basic eligibility under Section 16 The first requirement is that the claimant must be a registered person. Secondly, the inward supply must be used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of business. The statutory language is broad enough to cover genuine business inputs and input services, but it does not permit credit for expenditure having no business connection. Section 16(2) then lays down important conditions. The recipient must possess a tax invoice, debit note or other prescribed tax-paying document; must have received the goods or services; and must satisfy the return and supplier-reporting requirements prescribed by the Act. Where goods are received in lots or instalments, the credit becomes available on receipt of the last lot or instalment. CBIC’s ITC guidance also identifies invoices, debit notes and bills of entry among the documents on which credit may be availed (CBIC, n.d.-a). 2. Supplier reporting and GSTR-2B Section 16(2)(aa) links ITC to the supplier furnishing the relevant invoice or debit-note details in the statement of outward supplies and those details being communicated to the recipient through the statutory mechanism. In practice, GSTR-2B has become an important reconciliation document. The GST portal states that GSTR-2B shows available and unavailable credit in specified categories, but also cautions that taxpayers must independently assess eligibility because not every possible restriction is necessarily captured by the system (GSTN, n.d.). This distinction is important. An invoice appearing in GSTR-2B does not by itself make every rupee of ITC legally available. The recipient still has to examine section 16, section 17, the rules and the nature and use of the inward supply. 3. Payment to supplier within 180 days The second proviso to section 16(2) deals with a recipient who fails to pay the supplier the value of the supply together with the tax payable within 180 days from the date of invoice, subject to the statutory exceptions. In such a situation, the amount of ITC availed is required to be added to output tax liability with interest in the prescribed manner. CBIC’s rules provide for the reporting and reversal procedure, and the credit may be re-availed after payment is made in accordance with the law (CBIC, n.d.-a; CGST Rules, 2017, rule 37). The rule reflects a compliance connection between the commercial transaction and the tax credit. Businesses should therefore monitor outstanding vendor balances instead of treating ITC as permanently available immediately after booking an invoice. 4. Time limit under Section 16(4) Section 16(4) imposes a statutory time limit for taking ITC on invoices or debit notes. The provision presently refers to 30 November following the end of the relevant financial year or the furnishing of the relevant annual return, whichever is earlier, subject to the provisions introduced subsequently. The Supreme Court in Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax v. Safari Retreats Private Limited, 2024 INSC 756, considered the validity and operation of section 16(4), among other ITC provisions, in the context of the broader statutory scheme (Safari Retreats, 2024). An important later development was the retrospective insertion of sections 16(5) and 16(6) by the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2024. CBIC Circular No. 237/31/2024-GST explains that these provisions, effective from 1 July 2017, retrospectively extend the time limit in specified circumstances, including certain cases involving cancelled and subsequently revoked registrations. The relief is therefore specific and should not be confused with a general removal of the time limitation (CBIC, 2024a). 5. Restrictions and blocked credits under Section 17 Eligibility under section 16 is only the starting point. Section 17 provides for apportionment where inputs or input services are used partly for business and partly for other purposes, and where supplies relate partly to taxable and partly to exempt supplies. Section 17(5) further specifies categories of blocked credit. These include specified motor vehicles, certain food and beverage or personal-use related expenses, membership of clubs, specified construction-related supplies and other listed categories, subject to statutory exceptions. The Supreme Court’s judgment in Safari Retreats is particularly relevant to blocked credits relating to construction of immovable property. The Court upheld the constitutional validity of section 17(5)(c) and (d) while discussing the meaning and application of “plant” and the functionality test in the context of the statutory scheme. The decision demonstrates that ITC questions cannot be answered solely by asking whether GST was paid; the statutory nature and use of the underlying supply must also be examined (Safari Retreats, 2024). Contemporary / Practical Analysis Example: ITC claimed by a manufacturer Suppose ABC Manufacturing Pvt. Ltd., a GST-registered company, purchases raw materials for ₹5,00,000 plus GST of ₹90,000 from a registered supplier. The materials are actually received at ABC’s factory and are used to manufacture taxable goods. ABC possesses the tax invoice, the transaction is reflected through the supplier’s outward-supply reporting and the credit is otherwise eligible. Subject to fulfilment of all statutory conditions, ABC may claim ₹90,000 as ITC. Now change one fact. Assume the invoice is genuine but the supplier does not furnish the invoice details as required, so the recipient cannot satisfy the relevant statutory communication condition. The recipient cannot simply treat the physical invoice as the only requirement. The present framework makes supplier reporting and electronic reconciliation important. This is why businesses increasingly reconcile purchase registers with GSTR-2B and communicate discrepancies to vendors promptly. A further variation illustrates the 180-day rule. If ABC avails eligible ITC but fails to pay the supplier the value plus tax within the statutory period, the prescribed reversal mechanism may apply. After payment, re-availment can take place according to the applicable rules. The lesson is simple: ITC requires continuing compliance, not merely a one-time accounting entry. Contemporary judicial issue: supplier default and bona fide recipients The supplier-compliance condition has generated litigation because the recipient may have limited control over whether the supplier correctly uploads an invoice. In M/s McLeod Russel India Limited v. Union of India & Ors., decided by the Gauhati High Court on 9 December 2025, the Court considered a challenge to section 16(2)(aa). The Court upheld the constitutional validity of the provision but read it down in the circumstances before it, holding that a bona fide purchaser should have an opportunity to establish the genuineness of the transaction when the supplier’s default causes the invoice not to be reflected. The decision illustrates an ongoing tension between revenue protection and protection of genuine purchasers (McLeod Russel India Ltd. v. Union of India, 2025). The case should be approached carefully. It is a High Court decision concerning the facts and statutory context before that court; it does not mean that a recipient can ignore section 16(2)(aa). For ordinary compliance, businesses should continue to obtain proper invoices, verify vendors, reconcile GSTR-2B, preserve evidence of receipt and payment, and address mismatches promptly. ITC eligibility checklist Requirement Legal basis Practical compliance action Registered person and business use Section 16(1) Confirm GST registration and business nexus. Valid tax document Section 16(2)(a), Rule 36 Preserve invoice/debit note/bill of entry with prescribed particulars. Receipt of goods/services Section 16(2)(b) Maintain GRNs, delivery records, service confirmations and contracts. Supplier reporting / communication Section 16(2)(aa) Reconcile purchase register with GSTR-2B and follow up with vendors. Supplier tax compliance condition Section 16(2)(c) Monitor supplier filing/payment risks and retain transaction evidence. Payment within 180 days Second proviso to Section 16(2), Rule 37 Track vendor ageing and reverse/reclaim credit where required. No depreciation on tax component Section 16(3) Do not claim depreciation on the GST component where ITC is claimed. Time limit Section 16(4), subject to ss. 16(5)-(6) Track financial-year deadlines and special statutory relief. No blocked credit Section 17(5) Screen expenses against the blocked-credit categories. Critical Discussion ITC is often described as the backbone of GST because it reduces cascading and links different stages of the supply chain. Nevertheless, the legal framework deliberately places conditions around the credit mechanism. This protects the revenue against fictitious invoices, duplicate claims and credits unrelated to taxable business activity. The major compliance difficulty is the interaction between substantive eligibility and data-driven GST administration. A genuine purchase can still generate a mismatch if a supplier uses the wrong GSTIN, uploads an invoice incorrectly or fails to report it. The recipient therefore needs controls that go beyond bookkeeping. Vendor onboarding, GSTIN verification, monthly reconciliation, exception reporting and documentary retention can materially reduce disputes. At the same time, compliance should not be reduced to blindly following an auto-populated figure. The GST portal itself cautions taxpayers that GSTR-2B does not cover every possible reason why ITC may be unavailable. A legally sound approach requires self-assessment against the Act and Rules, with technology used as a compliance aid rather than as a substitute for legal analysis (GSTN, n.d.). The statutory amendments of 2024 also show why tax research must be current. The retrospective insertion of sections 16(5) and 16(6) changed the position for specified historical periods. A student or practitioner relying on an older textbook alone could therefore reach an incomplete conclusion. Current circulars, notifications and judicial decisions must be checked alongside the bare Act. Conclusion and Suggestions Input Tax Credit under GST is a conditional statutory benefit rather than an unrestricted right to set off every GST payment. Section 16 establishes the basic entitlement and conditions, while sections 17 and 18, together with the CGST Rules, determine restrictions, apportionment and special situations. In practice, the strongest ITC position is created when legal eligibility, commercial documentation and electronic GST records all correspond. For businesses, four measures are particularly important: maintain complete invoices and proof of receipt; reconcile purchase records with GSTR-2B; monitor supplier compliance and vendor ageing; and conduct a periodic review of blocked credits and statutory deadlines. These steps help convert ITC compliance from a year-end exercise into an ongoing control process. Ultimately, the purpose of ITC is to preserve the value-added character of GST while preventing misuse. The challenge for taxpayers is to obtain legitimate credit without treating procedural compliance as optional. As GST administration becomes more digital and litigation continues to test the boundaries of section 16, accurate documentation, timely reconciliation and current legal research remain essential. References Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs. (2024a). Circular No. 237/31/2024-GST: Clarifying the issues regarding implementation of provisions of sub-section (5) and sub-section (6) in section 16 of CGST Act, 2017. Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs. (n.d.-a). Input Tax Credit Rules. Government of India. Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, No. 12 of 2017 (India), especially §§ 16–18. Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017 (India), especially rules 36 and 37. Goods and Services Tax Network. (n.d.). FAQs: Details in Form GSTR-2B. Government of India. McLeod Russel India Limited v. Union of India & Ors., WP(C) No. 5725 of 2022 (Gauhati High Court, Dec. 9, 2025). Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax v. Safari Retreats Private Limited, 2024 INSC 756 (Supreme Court of India). Union of India v. Bharti Airtel Ltd., (2022) 4 SCC 286 (Supreme Court of India). Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGSTR 2Binput tax credit Author Info Name: Armaan Malhotra Qualification: Student - Others Location: New Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax HC Can Condon GST Appeal Delay Beyond Section 107 Limit: Rajasthan High Court September 26, 2026 Rajasthan HC Condoned GST Appeal Delay Citing Portal Service & Medical Circumstances September 26, 2026 Punjab and Haryana HC Grants Bail in Alleged Rs.13.09 Crore GST Fraud September 26, 2026 One-Day Delay in Section 129(3) Notice Vitiates GST Proceedings: J&K HC September 26, 2026 GST Portal Error Correctable Under Section 161 Without Fresh Adjudication: Delhi HC September 26, 2026 Voluminous E-Way Bill Analysis Prompts Interim GST Protection: Gujarat HC September 26, 2026