Summary: A Private Limited Company is not considered fully compliant merely after incorporation and must fulfil continuous legal responsibilities every financial year to maintain its active status, meet regulatory obligations, and operate transparently. Annual compliance requirements mainly involve filings with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Income Tax Department, GST authorities, and other regulatory bodies. These include maintaining proper books of accounts, appointment and continuation of a statutory auditor, conducting Board Meetings and the Annual General Meeting, filing the Annual Return through Form MGT-7/MGT-7A, filing financial statements through Form AOC-4, completing Director KYC through Form DIR-3 KYC, filing Income Tax Returns, complying with GST requirements where applicable, filing MSME Form-1 where applicable, maintaining statutory registers, preparing the Board Report, obtaining director disclosures, maintaining minutes and corporate records, and completing event-based compliances when specified changes occur. These obligations generally continue irrespective of whether the company has generated revenue, conducted business activities, or remained inactive during the financial year. Timely compliance helps avoid additional filing fees, penalties, notices, director disqualification risks, and difficulties in obtaining loans, investments, or government approvals. A structured compliance system therefore supports legal status, financial transparency, corporate governance, credibility, and effective business operations. Table of Contents▸ Understanding Private Limited Company Annual Compliance Private Limited Company Annual Compliance Checklist Maintain Proper Books of Accounts Appointment and Continuation of Statutory Auditor Hold Board Meetings Conduct Annual General Meeting (AGM) Filing of Annual Return – Form MGT-7 / MGT-7A Filing Financial Statements – Form AOC-4 Director KYC Compliance – Form DIR-3 KYC Income Tax Return Filing GST Compliance (If Applicable) MSME Form Compliance (If Applicable) Maintenance of Statutory Registers Preparation of Board Report Filing of Director Disclosures Maintenance of Minutes and Corporate Records Event-Based Compliance During the Year Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Show all 19 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Understanding Private Limited Company Annual Compliance A Private Limited Company registered under the Companies Act, 2013 has a separate legal identity and is required to follow specific compliance obligations every year. These requirements apply irrespective of whether the company has generated revenue, conducted business activities, or remained inactive during the financial year. Annual compliance includes maintaining financial records, conducting mandatory meetings, filing statutory forms with the Registrar of Companies (ROC), submitting income tax returns, and ensuring proper maintenance of corporate documents. Non-compliance may lead to additional filing fees, penalties, director disqualification risks, and difficulties in obtaining loans, investments, or government approvals. Private Limited Company Annual Compliance Checklist Maintain Proper Books of Accounts Maintaining accurate books of accounts is one of the fundamental responsibilities of every Private Limited Company. The company must record all financial transactions in a systematic manner to ensure transparency and accuracy in financial reporting. The accounting records should include details related to income, expenses, sales, purchases, assets, liabilities, investments, loans, employee payments, and tax-related transactions. These records form the foundation for preparing financial statements and completing annual filings. Proper maintenance of books of accounts helps companies evaluate their financial performance, comply with tax regulations, and provide reliable information to auditors, investors, and regulatory authorities. Appointment and Continuation of Statutory Auditor Every Private Limited Company is required to appoint a statutory auditor who examines the company’s financial records and verifies whether the financial statements represent a true and fair view of the company’s financial position. The auditor reviews accounting records, verifies financial transactions, checks compliance with applicable laws, and prepares an audit report based on the company’s financial statements. Companies must ensure that the auditor appointment remains valid and all required ROC filings related to auditor appointment or changes are completed within prescribed timelines. A proper audit process strengthens financial credibility and helps identify possible compliance issues. Hold Board Meetings Board Meetings are an essential part of corporate governance as they allow directors to review company operations and make important business decisions. During Board Meetings, directors discuss financial performance, business strategies, investments, borrowings, compliance matters, operational issues, and future plans of the company. Private Limited Companies must conduct Board Meetings as prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 and maintain proper records such as meeting notices, attendance sheets, agendas, and minutes. Regular Board Meetings ensure that company decisions are properly documented and taken in accordance with legal requirements. Conduct Annual General Meeting (AGM) The Annual General Meeting is a mandatory meeting where shareholders review the company’s performance and approve important matters related to the business. During the AGM, shareholders consider and approve financial statements, auditor reports, directors’ reports, and other necessary resolutions. The AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to understand the company’s financial position, business activities, and future plans. Proper notice, agenda, attendance records, and meeting minutes must be maintained as part of statutory records. Filing of Annual Return – Form MGT-7 / MGT-7A The Annual Return is a mandatory filing submitted to the Registrar of Companies containing important information about the company’s structure and activities during the financial year. The filing includes details such as company information, registered office details, directors, shareholders, shareholding pattern, securities issued, and changes that occurred during the year. MGT-7 is generally applicable to companies other than small companies, while MGT-7A is applicable to small companies and certain specified companies. Timely filing of Annual Return ensures that the company’s records with the MCA remain updated and prevents unnecessary penalties. Filing Financial Statements – Form AOC-4 Every Private Limited Company must submit its financial statements to the Registrar of Companies through Form AOC-4. The financial statements generally include the balance sheet, profit and loss statement, notes to accounts, auditor report, and board report. This filing provides the government with information regarding the company’s financial performance and position during the financial year. Even companies with no business activity or zero revenue are required to complete this compliance to maintain their legal status. Director KYC Compliance – Form DIR-3 KYC Every individual holding a Director Identification Number (DIN) must complete annual KYC verification to ensure that the information available with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs remains accurate. The process involves verification of personal details such as mobile number, email address, identity information, and other required details. Failure to complete DIR-3 KYC within the prescribed period may result in deactivation of DIN and additional compliance requirements for directors. Income Tax Return Filing Every Private Limited Company must file an Income Tax Return annually, regardless of whether the company has earned profit, incurred losses, or remained inactive. The Income Tax Return must contain details of the company’s income, expenses, deductions, taxes paid, and financial position. Companies must ensure that information reported in the income tax return matches their books of accounts and audited financial statements. Timely income tax filing helps companies avoid interest, penalties, notices, and unnecessary legal complications. GST Compliance (If Applicable) Private Limited Companies registered under GST must comply with applicable GST filing requirements. GST compliance involves reporting sales, purchases, input tax credit details, and payment of tax liabilities through prescribed GST returns. Companies may be required to file regular GST returns such as GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B along with annual returns where applicable. Maintaining proper GST records helps businesses claim eligible input tax credit and prevents issues during departmental verification or assessment. MSME Form Compliance (If Applicable) Companies that have outstanding payments to Micro and Small Enterprises may be required to file MSME Form-1 with details of pending payments. This compliance aims to promote timely payments to MSME suppliers and improve financial discipline among businesses. Companies should maintain proper vendor records and regularly review outstanding payments to identify whether MSME reporting requirements apply. Maintenance of Statutory Registers Private Limited Companies are required to maintain various statutory registers as prescribed under company law. These registers contain important information regarding shareholders, directors, share transfers, investments, charges, and other corporate activities. Proper maintenance of statutory registers ensures transparency and allows the company to provide accurate records during audits, inspections, due diligence processes, or regulatory reviews. Preparation of Board Report The Board Report is a document prepared by the directors explaining the company’s performance and important developments during the financial year. It generally includes financial highlights, business operations, future plans, risk factors, corporate governance information, and directors’ responsibility statements. The Board Report provides shareholders with a clear understanding of the company’s activities and overall progress. Filing of Director Disclosures Directors are required to provide certain declarations and disclosures to ensure transparency in company management. These disclosures may include details regarding interests in other entities, related party relationships, and confirmation regarding eligibility to act as directors. Maintaining proper director disclosures helps companies comply with corporate governance requirements and avoid conflicts of interest. Maintenance of Minutes and Corporate Records Companies must maintain proper records of decisions taken during Board Meetings and General Meetings. Minutes should clearly mention discussions held, approvals granted, and resolutions passed by directors or shareholders. Proper maintenance of minutes provides legal evidence of company decisions and supports transparency in corporate management. Event-Based Compliance During the Year Apart from annual filings, companies must complete certain compliance requirements whenever specific changes occur. These changes may include appointment or resignation of directors, change in registered office, issue of shares, increase in authorised capital, alteration of company structure, or creation of charges. Such events require filing relevant forms with the MCA within prescribed timelines to keep company records updated. Conclusion Private Limited Company annual compliance is an essential responsibility that helps a business maintain its legal status, financial transparency, and operational credibility. Compliance is not limited to filing annual returns or submitting forms with the Registrar of Companies (ROC); it also includes maintaining proper books of accounts, conducting mandatory meetings, preparing financial statements, maintaining statutory registers, completing tax-related obligations, and following effective corporate governance practices. A structured compliance system enables companies to avoid penalties, additional fees, regulatory notices, and unnecessary legal complications while building trust among investors, shareholders, lenders, and other stakeholders. It provides professional assistance for Private Limited Company annual compliance, ROC filings, corporate documentation, and other regulatory requirements. With expert guidance and timely compliance management, businesses can focus on expansion while ensuring that their legal obligations are properly handled. For reliable compliance support and professional assistance, connect with Compliance Calendar LLP at [[email protected]](mailto:[email protected]) or 9988424211. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Q1. Is annual compliance mandatory for every Private Limited Company in India? Ans. Yes, annual compliance is mandatory for every Private Limited Company registered under the Companies Act, 2013. It applies regardless of business activity, turnover, or profitability. Companies must complete ROC filings, financial statement submissions, tax compliances, and other applicable requirements every year to maintain their active legal status. Q2. What are the major annual compliances required for a Private Limited Company? Ans. Major annual compliances include filing financial statements through Form AOC-4, annual return filing through MGT-7/MGT-7A, conducting AGM, maintaining statutory registers, completing Director KYC, filing income tax returns, and fulfilling GST obligations. These compliances ensure transparency, regulatory compliance, and proper maintenance of company records. Q3. What happens if a Private Limited Company does not complete annual compliance? Ans. Non-compliance may result in additional filing fees, penalties, and legal consequences for the company and directors. Continuous default can affect the company’s active status, create difficulties in obtaining loans or investments, and impact business credibility. Timely compliance helps avoid unnecessary financial and regulatory complications. Q4. Is annual compliance required even if the company has no business or turnover? Ans. Yes, annual compliance is required even if the company has no business operations, revenue, or transactions during the financial year. A Private Limited Company has a separate legal identity, and compliance obligations continue until the company is officially closed or removed through the prescribed legal process. Q5. What is the difference between MGT-7 and MGT-7A? Ans. MGT-7 is the Annual Return filing form applicable to most companies under the Companies Act, 2013. MGT-7A is a simplified annual return form available for small companies and certain eligible companies. Both forms provide important details about company structure, directors, shareholders, and annual activities. Q6. What is Form AOC-4 and why is it filed? Ans. Form AOC-4 is filed with the Registrar of Companies to submit the company’s financial statements. It includes details of balance sheets, profit and loss accounts, auditor reports, and board reports. This filing provides regulatory authorities with information about the company’s financial performance and position. Q7. When should a Private Limited Company conduct its AGM? Ans. A Private Limited Company must generally conduct its Annual General Meeting within six months from the end of the financial year. The AGM allows shareholders to review financial statements, approve important resolutions, discuss company performance, and consider matters affecting the company’s future operations and growth. Q8. Is Director KYC compulsory for all directors? Ans. Yes, every person holding an active Director Identification Number (DIN) must complete annual KYC verification. This process confirms the accuracy of director details, including mobile number, email address, and identity information. Failure to complete KYC may lead to DIN deactivation and additional compliance requirements. Q9. Does a Private Limited Company need a statutory auditor every year? Ans. Yes, every Private Limited Company must appoint a statutory auditor for auditing its financial statements. The auditor reviews financial records, verifies transactions, checks compliance requirements, and provides an independent audit report. This ensures transparency, accuracy, and reliability of the company’s financial reporting. Q10. Is GST compliance required for every Private Limited Company? Ans. GST compliance depends on whether the company is registered under GST or meets applicable registration criteria. Companies having GST registration must file required returns, maintain tax records, pay applicable liabilities, and comply with GST regulations to avoid penalties, interest, and issues related to input tax credit. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013 Author Info Name: Compliance Calendar LLP Qualification: Graduate Company: Compliance Calendar LLP Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 64 View full profile → More from Compliance Calendar LLP Presumptive Taxation under Section 44AD: Eligibility, Turnover Limit & Tax Rates September 8, 2026 Section 194Q vs 206C(1H): TDS & TCS on High-Value Goods Transactions September 7, 2026 Tax Audit Under Section 44AB: Limits, Forms, Due Dates and Penalties September 5, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law AGM Extension for FY 2025-26: Section 96 & GNL-1 Guide September 10, 2026 NCLAT Upholds NCLT Jurisdiction Over Interim Oppression Proceedings in Exclusive Capital Dispute September 9, 2026 NCLT Mumbai Dispenses Stakeholder Meetings for Tata Motors Group Amalgamation Scheme September 8, 2026 Essar Power gets Scheme approval for brand demerger & capital restructuring: NCLT Ahmedabad September 8, 2026 41 FAQs on SFIO-ED nexus for investigations and Adjudications across India September 7, 2026 Annual ROC Compliance 2026: Beyond AOC-4 and MGT-7 September 7, 2026