How Should ITC Be Utilized? The Statutory Order for IGST, CGST and SGST Set Off: An Analysis From Perspective of Taxation Law Summary: Input Tax Credit (ITC) is a central feature of the Goods and Services Tax framework and is intended to prevent cascading by allowing eligible tax paid on inputs, input services and capital goods to be adjusted against output tax liability. However, ITC is a statutory entitlement governed by prescribed conditions, restrictions and a specific order of utilisation. The framework under Sections 49, 49A and 49B of the CGST Act, read with Rule 88A of the CGST Rules, gives priority to utilisation of IGST credit. IGST credit is first utilised against IGST liability and the balance may be utilised against CGST and SGST/UTGST liabilities in the prescribed manner. CGST credit may be utilised against CGST and thereafter IGST, while SGST/UTGST credit may be utilised against the corresponding State/Union Territory tax and thereafter IGST. Direct cross-utilisation between CGST and SGST/UTGST is restricted. This statutory structure seeks to reconcile seamless credit and tax neutrality with India’s fiscal federalism and the separate revenue interests of the Union and States. Judicial decisions including ALD Automotive Pvt. Ltd. v. Commercial Tax Officer, Jayam & Co. v. Assistant Commissioner (CT) and Union of India v. Filco Trade Centre Pvt. Ltd. also demonstrate the importance of statutory conditions and procedural safeguards in the ITC framework. An effective ITC system must ultimately balance legitimate credit utilisation, taxpayer certainty, prevention of cascading and protection of public revenue. Table of Contents▸ 1. Introduction: Understanding Input Tax Credit Under GST 2. Statutory Framework Governing ITC Utilisation 3. The Prescribed Order of Set-Off: IGST, CGST and SGST 4. Utilisation of IGST Credit and Cross-Utilisation of ITC 5. ITC and the Principle of Avoidance of Tax Cascading 6. ITC Utilisation, Tax Neutrality and Fiscal Federalism 7. Judicial Approach and Critical Issues in ITC Utilisation 8. Conclusion Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 1. Introduction: Understanding Input Tax Credit Under GST The introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) marked a significant transformation in India’s indirect tax system by replacing a complex structure of multiple indirect taxes with a more integrated, destination-based tax regime. One of the most important features of GST is the mechanism of Input Tax Credit (ITC), which enables a registered person to claim credit for the GST paid on inputs, input services, and, subject to the statutory conditions, capital goods used in the course or furtherance of business. The fundamental purpose of ITC is to ensure that tax is ultimately imposed only on the value added at each stage of the supply chain, rather than allowing tax to become a cost embedded in the price of goods and services. In this sense, ITC is central to the functioning of GST because it seeks to prevent the cascading effect of taxes and promote greater neutrality in the taxation of business transactions. However, ITC is not an unrestricted or automatic entitlement. Its availment and utilisation are governed by the provisions of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act), the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (IGST Act), and the rules framed thereunder. The statutory framework prescribes not only the conditions under which credit may be availed but also the manner and order in which such credit can be utilised against output tax liability. This distinction between availing ITC and utilising ITC is particularly important in understanding the GST credit mechanism. While the availability of credit determines the amount of tax credit legally attributable to the taxpayer, the order of utilisation determines how that credit may be set off against IGST, CGST and SGST liabilities. The prescribed sequence is therefore not merely an accounting mechanism but a statutory arrangement with significant implications for taxpayers, revenue authorities and the federal structure of GST. The utilisation of IGST credit assumes particular importance because IGST is collected by the Union and subsequently apportioned between the Union and the States in accordance with the constitutional and statutory framework governing GST. The restrictions governing the utilisation of CGST and SGST credit similarly reflect the legislative attempt to maintain an appropriate balance between the respective revenue interests of the Centre and the States. Consequently, the question of how ITC should be utilised cannot be examined solely from the perspective of tax compliance. It must also be understood in light of broader principles of taxation law, including the avoidance of cascading, tax neutrality, certainty, equality, efficiency and the destination-based character of GST. The statutory order of set-off for IGST, CGST and SGST therefore represents an important intersection between legislative policy, tax administration and the economic objectives underlying GST. Examining this mechanism provides an opportunity to assess whether the present statutory framework successfully achieves the fundamental objective of GST—creating a seamless and efficient credit chain while protecting the legitimate revenue interests of both the Centre and the States. This article accordingly examines the statutory framework governing ITC utilisation and evaluates the prescribed order of set-off through the broader principles that inform modern taxation law. 2. Statutory Framework Governing ITC Utilisation The utilisation of Input Tax Credit (ITC) under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime is governed by a comprehensive statutory framework primarily consisting of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act), the Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (IGST Act), the State Goods and Services Tax Acts (SGST Acts) and the rules made thereunder. The framework seeks to establish a structured mechanism through which tax paid at an earlier stage of the supply chain can be credited against the tax liability arising at a subsequent stage. However, the right to utilise ITC is subject to statutory conditions and limitations, and therefore cannot be treated as an unrestricted right of the taxpayer. The legislative scheme is designed to maintain the continuity of the credit chain while simultaneously protecting the revenue interests of both the Union and the States. The principal statutory provision relating to eligibility for ITC is Section 16 of the CGST Act, 2017. It establishes the basic conditions under which a registered person may claim credit of input tax in respect of supplies used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of business. The provision is supplemented by other provisions dealing with restrictions, blocked credits, documentation and compliance requirements. Thus, the mere payment of GST on an inward supply does not, by itself, create an unconditional entitlement to utilise the amount as credit. The taxpayer must satisfy the requirements prescribed by the legislation. The manner of utilisation is principally governed by Section 49 of the CGST Act, read with the relevant provisions of the IGST Act and the rules. Section 49 provides the statutory mechanism for payment of tax, interest, penalty and other amounts and recognises the utilisation of the electronic credit ledger for payment of eligible output tax liability. The electronic credit ledger is therefore an important component of the ITC mechanism, as it records the credit available to a registered person and facilitates its utilisation in accordance with the statutory order. The treatment of IGST credit assumes particular significance under the GST framework. Since IGST is levied on inter-State supplies and imports, its credit is designed to flow across the GST structure in accordance with the prescribed statutory sequence. The law permits utilisation of eligible IGST credit towards IGST liability and, subject to the prescribed conditions and order, towards CGST and SGST or UTGST liabilities. In contrast, CGST and SGST credits are subject to specific restrictions concerning their utilisation. In particular, the statutory framework does not permit unrestricted cross-utilisation of CGST credit against SGST liability or SGST credit against CGST liability. These restrictions reflect the distinct revenue components represented by Central and State GST. The CGST Rules, 2017, together with the corresponding statutory provisions, further regulate the practical operation of the credit mechanism. The framework therefore operates through an interconnected set of provisions rather than through a single rule. This statutory structure is significant from the perspective of taxation law because it demonstrates that ITC is a legislatively regulated mechanism intended to achieve both tax neutrality and revenue protection. The prescribed order of utilisation consequently represents a deliberate legislative policy choice. Understanding this statutory architecture is essential before examining whether the existing mechanism adequately fulfils the broader objectives of GST, particularly the elimination of cascading, preservation of fiscal balance and creation of a seamless credit chain. 3. The Prescribed Order of Set-Off: IGST, CGST and SGST The GST framework does not permit a taxpayer to utilise available Input Tax Credit in an entirely discretionary manner. The legislation prescribes a specific order in which ITC relating to IGST, CGST and SGST/UTGST is to be utilised against the corresponding output tax liabilities. This statutory sequence is primarily intended to ensure an orderly flow of credit while maintaining the respective revenue interests of the Centre and the States. Under Section 49 of the CGST Act, 2017, read with Section 49B and Rule 88A of the CGST Rules, the utilisation of IGST credit receives priority. The available IGST credit is first utilised towards payment of IGST liability. Any remaining IGST credit may thereafter be utilised towards payment of CGST and SGST/UTGST liabilities, subject to the prescribed conditions and order. The utilisation of IGST credit is therefore broader than that of CGST or SGST credit because IGST represents the integrated component of the GST structure and is intended to facilitate the movement of credit across inter-State transactions. Once the applicable IGST credit has been utilised, the taxpayer may utilise CGST credit against CGST liability. Any remaining CGST credit may subsequently be utilised against IGST liability, but CGST credit cannot be utilised for payment of SGST or UTGST liability. Similarly, SGST or UTGST credit is first utilised against the respective SGST or UTGST liability and, subject to the statutory framework, may subsequently be utilised against IGST liability. However, SGST/UTGST credit cannot ordinarily be utilised for payment of CGST liability. Thus, the GST mechanism deliberately prevents direct cross-utilisation between CGST and SGST/UTGST. The prescribed order is significant from the perspective of taxation law because it reflects more than a mere accounting procedure. It seeks to maintain the seamless flow of credit while simultaneously preserving the fiscal boundaries between the Union and the States. The priority accorded to IGST credit facilitates the movement of credit through the GST chain and reduces the possibility of credit becoming unnecessarily blocked. At the same time, the prohibition on direct utilisation of CGST credit against SGST liability and SGST credit against CGST liability protects the separate revenue components of the dual GST structure. The mechanism therefore embodies an attempt to reconcile two potentially competing objectives: tax neutrality for businesses and fiscal security for governments. The prescribed sequence also demonstrates that ITC under GST is a statutory entitlement subject to statutory conditions, rather than an unrestricted right of the taxpayer to apply credit in any manner preferred. The order of set-off must consequently be understood in conjunction with the provisions governing eligibility, restrictions, utilisation and payment of tax. From the broader perspective of taxation principles, the mechanism seeks to prevent cascading and maintain neutrality while ensuring that the constitutional division of GST revenues between the Centre and the States is not undermined. The statutory order of IGST, CGST and SGST utilisation is therefore an essential component of the architecture of GST and provides the foundation for analysing whether the present system achieves the objectives of efficiency, certainty, neutrality and equitable taxation. 4. Utilisation of IGST Credit and Cross-Utilisation of ITC The utilisation of IGST credit occupies a central position in the GST credit mechanism because IGST is specifically designed to facilitate the movement of credit across State boundaries. Under the statutory framework, particularly Section 49 of the CGST Act, 2017 read with Section 49 of the IGST Act and Rule 88A of the CGST Rules, eligible IGST credit is first utilised towards payment of IGST liability. Where IGST credit remains after discharge of the IGST liability, the balance may be utilised towards CGST and SGST/UTGST liabilities in the prescribed manner. This cross-utilisation is an important feature distinguishing IGST credit from CGST and SGST credit. It enables credit arising from an inter-State transaction to continue through the supply chain even when the subsequent taxable transaction occurs within a State. The mechanism consequently supports the fundamental GST objective of creating a relatively seamless national credit chain rather than allowing tax paid at an earlier stage to become an embedded cost. Cross-utilisation of ITC, however, is not unrestricted. The GST regime follows a dual structure in which CGST and SGST/UTGST represent separate components of the tax levied on intra-State supplies. Accordingly, CGST credit cannot be directly utilised for payment of SGST/UTGST liability, while SGST/UTGST credit cannot be directly utilised for payment of CGST liability. Both types of credit may, subject to the statutory order and conditions, be utilised towards payment of IGST liability. The restrictions are significant because they preserve the respective revenue interests of the Centre and the States and prevent one component of the dual GST from being freely adjusted against another. The structure can therefore be understood as a balance between the principle of seamless credit and the principle of fiscal federalism, under which the Centre and the States retain distinct but interconnected revenue interests. The cross-utilisation mechanism also reflects the destination-based character of GST. Since GST is ultimately intended to accrue to the jurisdiction where consumption takes place, the movement and adjustment of IGST credit between different components of tax must be regulated carefully. At the same time, unrestricted cross-utilisation could complicate the settlement of revenues between the Centre and the States. The statutory limitations therefore serve an important administrative and fiscal purpose. From the perspective of taxation law, the scheme demonstrates that ITC is not merely a concession granted to taxpayers but a carefully structured statutory mechanism intended to reconcile tax neutrality, prevention of cascading, administrative efficiency and protection of government revenue. The treatment of IGST credit and the limitations on cross-utilisation thus form an essential part of understanding the legal and economic architecture of India’s GST system. 5. ITC and the Principle of Avoidance of Tax Cascading One of the fundamental objectives underlying the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime is the elimination of the cascading effect of taxes, commonly understood as the imposition of tax upon a value that already contains an element of tax paid at an earlier stage. Before the introduction of GST, the Indian indirect tax system consisted of multiple central and State-level taxes, and the availability of credit across different taxes was often restricted. This could result in a situation where tax paid on inputs became part of the cost on which tax was subsequently imposed, thereby creating a cumulative tax burden throughout the supply chain. The introduction of Input Tax Credit (ITC) seeks to address this problem by allowing eligible taxpayers to deduct the tax paid on their inputs and input services from their subsequent output tax liability. In economic terms, this ensures that taxation is substantially imposed on the value addition at each stage, rather than repeatedly taxing the same underlying value. The ITC mechanism is therefore closely connected with the principle of tax neutrality. A well-designed value-added tax should ideally ensure that the tax does not influence business decisions merely because of the tax treatment of inputs. By permitting the credit of eligible input tax, GST seeks to prevent tax from becoming an artificial cost in the production and distribution process. For instance, where a manufacturer pays GST on raw materials and subsequently supplies finished goods on which GST is payable, the manufacturer is generally permitted to use the eligible input tax credit against the output tax liability. The tax already borne on the inputs is consequently recognised within the credit chain rather than being allowed to accumulate as an additional cost. This mechanism promotes continuity of credit from one stage of the supply chain to another and is essential to the functioning of GST as a value-added tax. However, the objective of eliminating cascading does not mean that every tax paid by a registered person automatically becomes available as credit. ITC remains subject to statutory conditions, restrictions and exclusions. The CGST Act, 2017 prescribes conditions for entitlement to credit, while specific provisions restrict or deny credit in certain circumstances. This reflects an important principle of taxation law: the legislature may design conditions around a statutory tax benefit in order to prevent misuse, revenue leakage and fraudulent claims. Consequently, the anti-cascading objective must operate within the boundaries established by the statutory framework. The principle also has a broader significance for the Indian GST structure. Since GST operates through both Central and State components, the seamless movement of credit must be balanced against the need to preserve the respective revenue interests of the Centre and the States. The rules governing utilisation of IGST, CGST and SGST credit are therefore designed to facilitate the flow of legitimate credit while preventing unrestricted cross-utilisation between Central and State tax components. In this manner, ITC functions as an instrument for achieving both economic efficiency and fiscal discipline. Thus, the principle of avoidance of tax cascading provides the economic and policy foundation for the ITC mechanism. By ensuring that eligible input taxes are capable of being credited against output tax liability, GST seeks to create a transparent and continuous chain of taxation in which the ultimate burden is intended to fall on consumption rather than becoming embedded at successive stages of production and distribution. The effectiveness of this principle, however, depends upon how efficiently the statutory framework balances seamless credit, taxpayer compliance, prevention of tax evasion and protection of public revenue. 6. ITC Utilisation, Tax Neutrality and Fiscal Federalism The utilisation of Input Tax Credit (ITC) under GST reflects a careful balance between the principle of tax neutrality and the requirements of fiscal federalism. Tax neutrality implies that the tax system should, as far as possible, avoid influencing business decisions merely because of the tax treatment of inputs. The ITC mechanism supports this principle by allowing eligible input taxes to be set off against output tax liability, thereby ensuring that tax does not unnecessarily become a cost at successive stages of production and distribution. In a value-added tax system such as GST, the availability of credit is therefore essential for maintaining the neutrality of taxation and ensuring that the ultimate burden is substantially borne at the point of consumption rather than accumulating throughout the supply chain. At the same time, GST in India is based on a dual model of taxation, under which both the Union and the States have distinct but interconnected taxing powers. CGST represents the Central component of GST, while SGST represents the State component in respect of intra-State supplies. This structure makes fiscal federalism an important consideration in determining how ITC may be utilised. Although the GST framework seeks to provide a seamless flow of credit, unrestricted utilisation of one category of credit against another could affect the revenue interests of the Centre or the States and complicate the process of revenue settlement. Consequently, the law permits cross-utilisation of certain credits while placing restrictions on direct utilisation between CGST and SGST. The treatment of IGST credit illustrates this balance particularly well. IGST credit is capable of being utilised across the GST structure in the manner prescribed by law, thereby facilitating the movement of credit between inter-State and intra-State transactions. This helps preserve the principle of tax neutrality by preventing legitimate credit from becoming unnecessarily stranded. However, the statutory restrictions governing CGST and SGST credit recognise that the two components belong to different levels of government within India’s federal tax structure. The restrictions are therefore not merely procedural; they have a fiscal dimension because they help maintain the distinction between Central and State tax revenues. From the perspective of taxation law, the ITC mechanism consequently represents an attempt to reconcile economic efficiency with constitutional and fiscal considerations. Excessive restrictions on credit could undermine the objective of a seamless GST regime and reintroduce elements of cascading, whereas unrestricted cross-utilisation could create difficulties in maintaining the financial balance between the Union and the States. The prescribed rules of utilisation seek to occupy a middle ground by permitting sufficient movement of credit to maintain neutrality while retaining safeguards for governmental revenue. Thus, ITC utilisation demonstrates how GST combines the principles of tax neutrality, prevention of cascading and fiscal federalism within a single statutory framework. The effectiveness of this framework ultimately depends upon whether it can maintain a seamless credit chain for taxpayers without disturbing the constitutionally significant distribution of fiscal responsibilities and revenues between the Centre and the States. 7. Judicial Approach and Critical Issues in ITC Utilisation The judicial approach towards Input Tax Credit (ITC) has consistently recognised that ITC is a significant feature of the GST framework, while also emphasising that its availment and utilisation are governed by the statutory scheme. Courts have generally treated ITC as a statutory entitlement subject to the conditions, restrictions and procedures prescribed by legislation, rather than as an absolute or unconditional right. This approach is particularly important because the GST legislation gives the legislature considerable scope to determine the circumstances in which credit may be claimed and the manner in which it may be utilised. The Supreme Court’s decision in ALD Automotive Pvt. Ltd. v. Commercial Tax Officer is frequently relied upon for the broader proposition that input tax credit under a value-added tax regime can be made conditional upon compliance with statutory requirements. Similarly, in Jayam & Co. v. Assistant Commissioner (CT), the Supreme Court observed that input tax credit is a benefit created by statute and that the legislature is competent to prescribe conditions for availing such credit. Although these decisions arose under earlier State VAT legislation, their reasoning remains relevant when examining the statutory nature of ITC under GST. A major judicial development in the GST context has been the recognition that ITC is not equivalent to a fundamental or constitutional right to claim credit in every circumstance. In Union of India v. Filco Trade Centre Pvt. Ltd., the Supreme Court dealt with the issue of transitional credit and directed the GST authorities to provide an opportunity to affected taxpayers to claim transitional ITC within the framework prescribed by the Court. The decision demonstrates the judiciary’s willingness to address procedural difficulties where technological or transitional arrangements have affected legitimate credit claims, while still operating within the statutory framework. Courts have also repeatedly examined disputes concerning eligibility of credit, documentation, procedural compliance, blocked credits and restrictions imposed by the GST legislation. Despite the statutory and judicial framework, several critical issues in ITC utilisation continue to arise. One significant concern is the tension between the objective of seamless credit and the numerous statutory conditions imposed upon taxpayers. While restrictions are necessary to prevent fraudulent or incorrect claims, excessive procedural requirements can potentially increase compliance costs and create disputes over credit that is otherwise connected with genuine business transactions. Another important issue concerns the distinction between eligibility and utilisation. A taxpayer may possess credit reflected in the electronic credit ledger, but its actual utilisation remains subject to the statutory order and restrictions governing different categories of GST. The treatment of CGST, SGST and IGST credit also raises important questions concerning the balance between taxpayer neutrality and fiscal federalism. Restrictions on cross-utilisation are intended to protect the respective revenue interests of the Centre and the States, but they may, in particular circumstances, result in accumulation of one category of credit while another category of tax liability remains payable. This creates working-capital and cash-flow implications for businesses and raises the broader question of whether the credit mechanism always operates as seamlessly as the original policy objective of GST envisaged. Thus, the judicial approach and the continuing controversies surrounding ITC reveal a fundamental tension within GST law: how should the law preserve the seamless and neutral character of ITC while simultaneously preventing misuse and protecting public revenue? The answer requires a balance between statutory discipline, administrative efficiency and the underlying principle of avoiding cascading. Judicial interpretation consequently remains important in ensuring that restrictions on ITC are applied according to law while maintaining the broader objectives of the GST regime. 8. Conclusion Input Tax Credit constitutes the foundation of the GST mechanism and plays a crucial role in ensuring that taxation is imposed on value addition rather than repeatedly on the same economic value. The statutory order governing the utilisation of IGST, CGST and SGST credit represents an attempt to balance the objective of maintaining a seamless credit chain with the need to safeguard the respective revenue interests of the Union and the States. By permitting the appropriate utilisation and cross-utilisation of eligible credit while restricting direct cross-utilisation between CGST and SGST, the GST framework seeks to preserve both tax neutrality and fiscal federalism. An efficient ITC regime, however, must go beyond merely prescribing rules for credit utilisation. It should ensure that genuine taxpayers are able to obtain and utilise legitimate credit without facing unnecessary procedural obstacles, prolonged disputes or avoidable blockage of working capital. At the same time, safeguards against fraudulent claims, wrongful availment and tax evasion remain necessary to protect public revenue. The challenge, therefore, lies in maintaining an appropriate equilibrium between ease of compliance and revenue protection. Excessive restrictions may undermine the very objective of GST by causing credit accumulation and increasing the effective tax burden, whereas inadequate controls may facilitate misuse of the credit mechanism. The principles of avoidance of cascading and tax neutrality should consequently remain central to the interpretation and development of ITC provisions. Where legitimate credit is denied or its utilisation is unnecessarily restricted, the economic burden of GST may shift from being a tax on consumption towards becoming a cost for businesses. At the same time, the federal character of GST requires that reforms to ITC utilisation do not disregard the separate fiscal interests of the Centre and the States. A balanced approach should therefore facilitate the movement of genuine credit while preserving an effective mechanism for revenue settlement between different components of GST. Judicial interpretation also has an important role in maintaining this balance. Courts can ensure that statutory conditions governing ITC are applied consistently and that procedural requirements do not operate in a manner disproportionate to the legitimate objectives of tax administration. At the same time, taxpayers must recognise that ITC remains a statutory entitlement subject to legislative conditions and cannot be claimed independently of the requirements established under GST law. Ultimately, an efficient and equitable ITC regime should be one that is simple, predictable, technology-driven and legally certain, while retaining adequate safeguards against tax fraud and revenue leakage. Periodic review of the utilisation mechanism, rationalisation of unnecessary compliance requirements and timely resolution of credit-related disputes can strengthen taxpayer confidence in the GST system. The success of GST depends not merely upon the rate at which tax is imposed, but upon the efficiency with which the credit chain operates. A well-balanced ITC framework can therefore advance the larger objectives of GST by reducing cascading, promoting neutrality, facilitating legitimate business activity and simultaneously respecting India’s federal fiscal structure. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under CGSTGoods And Services TaxGSTIGSTinput tax creditSGST Author Info Name: Navroop Kaur Qualification: Graduate Location: Amritsar, Punjab Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Punjab & Haryana HC Bars Mechanical ITC Denial for Supplier Default October 5, 2026 Section 16(2)(c) After Shaurya Alloys: Shield Against Mechanical ITC Reversal October 5, 2026 APTPCA Seeks GST Amnesty, ITC Relief & GSTR-9/9C Due Date Extension to 31 March 2027 October 5, 2026 Supreme Court Dismisses Revenue Review Against ITC on Telecom Towers October 5, 2026 GST Registration Restoration Requires Interest, Late Fee and Penalty: GSTAT Hyderabad October 5, 2026 GST Penalty Order Issued After 230 Days Is Without Jurisdiction: GSTAT Ernakulam October 5, 2026