Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14567 Case Name Munni Devi Vs ITO (ITAT Agra) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Related Assessment Year 2011-12 Courts All ITAT, ITAT Agra Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Munni Devi Vs ITO (ITAT Agra) ₹30 Lakh Addition Falls—The Approval Had a Signature, but No Application of Mind! The background: Husband’s land sale, wife’s bank deposit The assessee had not originally filed her income-tax return for AY 2011-12. On noticing cash deposits of ₹34 lakh in her bank account, the Department initiated reassessment proceedings by issuing notice under section 148 on 27 March 2018. In response, she filed a return declaring income of ₹60,220. The assessee explained that her husband, Rakesh Kumar, had sold agricultural land in Firozabad for ₹34 lakh. Since he did not have a bank account, the sale proceeds were deposited in her account. According to her explanation, ₹2 lakh received as advance was deposited on 28 August 2010, and the balance ₹32 lakh was deposited on 29 November 2010, the date of execution of the sale deed. The Assessing Officer, however, found that the registered sale deed recorded consideration of only ₹4 lakh. He therefore treated the remaining ₹30 lakh as unexplained money under section 69A. The CIT(A) confirmed the addition. viewOrder-7 The assessee’s challenge went beyond the cash deposit Before the Tribunal, the assessee challenged both the validity of reopening and the addition on merits. She contended that the recorded reasons did not demonstrate proper application of mind and that the statutory approval under section 151 had been granted mechanically. On merits, she maintained that the deposits represented proceeds from the sale of her husband’s ancestral agricultural land. She also complained that the authorities had ignored a sworn affidavit and a Government-approved valuer’s report estimating the property’s value at ₹33,19,281. However, the Tribunal first examined the challenge to the sanction under section 151. If the assumption of jurisdiction itself was invalid, the merits of the addition would not require adjudication. The approval: Satisfaction expressed, reasoning missing The Principal Commissioner had endorsed the reopening proposal by stating that, in view of the reasons recorded by the Assessing Officer, he was satisfied that the case was fit for issuing notice under section 148. The assessee argued that this was a routine endorsement without independent consideration. A statutory approval, she submitted, could not be reduced to a formality merely repeating that the case was fit for reopening. Reliance was placed on CIT v. S. Goyanka Lime & Chemical Ltd., in which the Madhya Pradesh High Court had disapproved mechanical recording of satisfaction, and on several decisions of the Agra Tribunal taking a similar view. [TaxGuru](https://taxguru.in/income-tax/reassessment-section-148-decoding-judicial-angle-issues-controversies.html?utm_source=chatgpt.com) Revenue’s defence: An administrative approval needs no detailed discussion The Department contended that sanction under section 151 was an administrative exercise that did not require elaborate reasoning. It relied on PCIT v. Agroha Fincap Ltd., a Delhi High Court decision which, as recorded in the order, supported the sufficiency of a brief satisfaction endorsement. The Revenue also pointed to the summary dismissal of the special leave petition against that decision. The Tribunal thus considered competing decisions of two non-jurisdictional High Courts, with summary dismissal of SLPs against both. SLP dismissal does not convert a High Court ruling into Supreme Court law The Tribunal explained that summary dismissal of an SLP does not result in merger of the High Court judgment with the Supreme Court’s order. Nor does such dismissal constitute a declaration of law under Article 141 of the Constitution. Consequently, the conflicting High Court decisions continued to retain their independent character. The Tribunal relied on CIT v. Vegetable Products Ltd., 88 ITR 192 (SC), applying the principle that where two reasonable constructions of a taxing provision are possible, the construction favourable to the assessee should be adopted. viewOrder-7 It also followed the coordinate Bench decision in Banarsi Lal v. ITO, where reassessment had been quashed for mechanical sanction. Even administrative power must be exercised with reasons Rejecting the Department’s defence, the Tribunal emphasised that an administrative character does not dispense with the need for reasons. It referred to Supreme Court authorities explaining that reasons support accountability, transparency and fair decision-making. The order also discussed authorities treating approval by a superior officer as an important check and balance against arbitrary reopening. Elaborate reasons may not be necessary, but the exercise must demonstrate meaningful consideration. On examining the sanction in this case, the Tribunal held that it had been granted mechanically and without application of mind. The approval was therefore invalid, and the consequential reassessment was quashed. The assessee’s appeal was allowed, while the remaining grounds were expressly left open. viewOrder-7 Author’s comments: Check the jurisdiction before fighting the addition The practical lesson is to examine the recorded reasons, sanction proposal and actual approval at the outset. An addition may involve complicated factual disputes, but a jurisdictional defect can determine the appeal before those disputes are reached. However, this decision should not be presented as accepting that the entire ₹34 lakh represented agricultural land sale proceeds. The Tribunal did not adjudicate the discrepancy between the claimed consideration and the registered sale deed, the evidentiary effect of the affidavit, or the valuation report. Equally, a short approval is not automatically invalid. The decisive question is whether the record demonstrates independent application of mind. Here, the Tribunal found that safeguard missing—and the reassessment could not survive. Cases Discussed CIT Jabalpur v. S. Goyanka Lime & Chemical Ltd., (2015) 56 taxmann.com 390 (Madhya Pradesh High Court) — relied upon by the assessee; the High Court disapproved mechanical recording of satisfaction by the authority granting sanction for issuance of notice under section 148. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”5″} Govind Sharma v. ITO, ITA No. 428/Agr/2025, order dated 17.04.2026 (ITAT Agra) — coordinate Bench decision referred to for holding that reassessment founded on mechanical statutory approval could not survive. Shashi Sogani v. DCIT, ITA No. 554/Agr/2025, order dated 22.06.2026 (ITAT Agra) — coordinate Bench authority relied upon concerning mechanical approval for reassessment. Pawan Agarwal v. ITO, ITA No. 386/Agr/2025, order dated 26.11.2025 (ITAT Agra) — coordinate Bench decision referred to for quashing assessment proceedings based on mechanical approval. Banarsi Lal v. ITO, ITA No. 317/Agr/2025, order dated 20.03.2026 (ITAT Agra) — followed by the Tribunal; where conflicting non-jurisdictional High Court views existed, the coordinate Bench adopted the construction favourable to the assessee and quashed reassessment for defective section 151 approval. PCIT v. M/s Agroha Fincap Ltd., ITA 60/2024, judgment dated 06.10.2025 (Delhi High Court) — relied upon by Revenue for the contrary proposition that the satisfaction recorded by the competent authority fulfilled the statutory requirement. CIT v. Vegetable Products Ltd., [1973] 88 ITR 192 (Supreme Court) — followed for the principle that where two reasonable constructions of a taxing provision are possible, the construction favourable to the assessee should be adopted. PCIT v. N.C. Cables Ltd., 391 ITR 11 (Delhi High Court) — referred to in Banarsi Lal for holding that merely appending “approved” does not satisfy the statutory safeguard; elaborate reasons are unnecessary, but satisfaction must reflect consideration of the particular case. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”6″} SBC Minerals P. Ltd. v. ACIT, 475 ITR 360 (Delhi High Court) — referred to for holding that mechanical approval could vitiate the assumption of reassessment jurisdiction. Vodafone India Ltd. v. DCIT, 464 ITR 385 (Bombay High Court) — referred to for a similar view concerning mechanical sanction in reassessment proceedings. Experion Developers P. Ltd. v. ACIT, 422 ITR 355 (Delhi High Court) — cited on behalf of Revenue for the proposition that elaborate reasoning by the sanctioning authority is not required where it is satisfied with the reasons recorded by the Assessing Officer. Virbhadra Singh v. DCIT, 88 taxmann.com 88 (Himachal Pradesh High Court) — cited by Revenue regarding the nature and sufficiency of sanction under section 151. Sonia Gandhi v. ACIT, 407 ITR 594 (Delhi High Court) — cited by Revenue concerning sanction for issuance of a reassessment notice. Anil Kumar Jain v. DCIT, ITA No. 475/Del/2025, order dated 16.01.2026 (ITAT Delhi) — reproduced at length concerning mechanical section 151 satisfaction, application of mind and the authorities governing reassessment sanction. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”7″} SABH Infrastructure Ltd. v. ACIT, W.P.(C) 1357/2016, order dated 25.09.2017 (Delhi High Court) — reproduced through Anil Kumar Jain for guidelines concerning communication of reasons, approval forms, supporting material and disposal of objections in reassessment proceedings. Saraswat Co-operative Bank Ltd. v. ACIT & Others, [2025] 473 ITR 205 (Bombay High Court) — extensively reproduced for treating sanction by a high-ranking authority under section 151 as an inherent statutory check and balance requiring application of mind to the facts and applicable law. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”8″} Hindustan Lever Ltd. v. R.B. Wadkar, 268 ITR 332 (Bombay High Court) — reproduced for the principles that recorded reasons must disclose the Assessing Officer’s mind, provide the link between evidence and conclusion and cannot subsequently be supplemented. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”9″} State of H.P. v. Mustaque Ahmad, 2007 (58) ACC 382 (Supreme Court) — relied upon for the proposition that even administrative orders should desirably be supported by reasons. State of Rajasthan v. Rohitas and Ors., 2008 (61) ACC 678 (Supreme Court) — relied upon for the importance of reasons in good governance and the observation that failure to give reasons amounts to denial of justice. Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner, AIR 1978 SC 851 — relied upon for the rule that validity of an administrative order must be judged on the reasons stated in the order and cannot later be supplemented by fresh reasons. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”10″} U Manjunath v. U Chandrasekhar, 2017 (6) Supreme 19 (Supreme Court) — relied upon for the importance of reasons and analysis as evidence of application of mind. M/s Kranti Associates Pvt. Ltd. & Anr. v. Masood Ahmed Khan & Ors., (2010) 9 SCC 496 (Supreme Court) — relied upon for the requirement of reasons as an element of judicial accountability and transparency. :chatgpt-content-reference{index=”11″} FULL TEXT OF THE ORDER OF ITAT AGRA 1. This appeal is directed against the impugned order dated 10.03.2026 passed in appeal No CIT(Appeal) 2, Agra/10341/2018-19by the ld. Commissioner of Income Tax(Appeal)/ADDL/JCIT(A)-1, Jaipur [(hereinafter referred to as the “CIT(A)] u/s. 250 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the “Act”) for the A.Y. 2011-12,wherein ld CIT(A) has dismissed assessee’s appeal, confirming the addition of Rs. 30,00,000/- as unexplained cash deposit u/s 69A, made vide, assessment order dated 19.12.2018 passed u/s143(3)/147 of the Act. 2. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee is a non-filer. It was noticed by the department that the assessee deposited cash of Rs. 34,00,000/- in her bank account. The case was reopened u/s 147 of the Act by issuance of notice u/s 148 of the Act dated 27.03.2018 after recording reasons. Assessee filed return in response to notice u/s 148 of the Act on 24.04.2018, declaring her income at Rs. 60,220/-. Statutory notice u/s 142(1) of the Act was issued and served upon the assessee, seeking details of the nature and sources of the aforesaid cash deposit. Assessee furnished required details and submitted that her husband Mr. Rakesh Kumar sold agricultural land situated at Mauja-Alinagar, Teh- Kejra, Dist-Firozabad for the consideration of Rs. 34,00,000/-. Since he had no bank account of his own, he deposited Rs. 2,00,000/- on 28.08.2010 received as advance in her bank account and Rs. 32,00,000/- in her bank account on the date of execution of sale deed on 29.11.2010. The assessing officer, however, found that the actual sale consideration of the property on the basis of sale deed dated 29.11.2010 was Rs. 4,00,000/- and remaining cash deposit amounting to Rs.30,00,000/- remained unexplained for want of assessee’s explanation, thus, added Rs. 30,00,000/-as unexplained cash credit u/s 69A of the Act in the total income of the assessee, vide assessment order dated 19.12.2018 passed u/s 143(3) and 147 of the Act. 3. Aggrieved assessee, preferred an appeal before ld CIT(A), who dismissed assessee’s appeal and confirmed the addition of Rs. 30,00,000/- made by the assessing officer. 4. Aggrieved, assessee has raised the following grounds under this second appeal: “1. BECAUSE, upon due consideration of facts and in the overall circumstances of the case appellant denies its liability to be assessed in terms of Notice dated 27.03.2018 said to be issued under section 148 of the Act. 2. BECAUSE, the purported Reasons are No Reasons in the eyes of Law. The so called Reasons do not show any application of mind on part of the AO to show that any Income liable for Tax has escaped Assessment warranting recourse to Notice under section 148 of the Act. 3. BECAUSE, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case the AO was unjustified in assuming jurisdiction under section 148 without considering that reopening of the case under section 147 on the basis of cash deposit in bank is invalid. 4. BECAUSE, the approval under section 151 of the ‘Act’ was accorded in a routine, mechanical and non-speaking manner, without any application of mind by the competent authority, vitiating the entire proceedings from inception. 5. BECAUSE, the Ld. CIT(A) erred in sustaining the addition of Rs.30,00,000/- on account of cash deposit on 29.11.2010 in bank account of the appellant, which was sourced from sale of ancestral Agricultural land on 29.11.2010 by the husband of the appellant who had no Bank account in his name. 6. BECAUSE, the authorities below erred in ignoring the duly sworn affidavit. It is trite law that once an affidavit is filed, such affidavit is to be construed as true and correct if the same is not put to test by the revenue. 7. BECAUSE, authorities below erred in making and sustaining the addition without dealing with the Valuation report given by the Government Approved Valuer wherein the value of property was calculated at Rs.33,19,281/-. 8. BECAUSE, the Ld. CIT(A) brushed aside judicial precedents relied upon by the appellant as distinguishable on facts, such an action is arbitrary and legally flawed.” 5. Perused the records. Heard ld AR for the appellant assessee and ld Sr DR for the respondent revenue. 6. At the threshold of hearing, ld AR has pressed to adjudicate first on ground no. 4 as preliminary legal issue, challenging the validity of the entire assessment proceedings based on the mechanical approval accorded by the competent authority u/s 151 of the Act. As this legal issue goes to the very root of the matter, the same is being adjudicated as under. 7. Ld AR for the appellant assessee has submitted that the assumption of jurisdiction u/s 147/148 of the Act is fundamentally vitiated on account of the invalid sanction granted u/s 151 of the Act. The approval accorded by the ld PCIT does not show due application of mind. The same has been granted in a mechanical manner by stating “in view of the reasons recorded by the AO, I am satisfied that this is a fit case for issue of notice u/s 148”.This sort of approval is no approval in the eye of law, rendering the consequent assessment order dated 19.12.2018 as invalid and void ab initio. 8. Ld AR has referred– (i) CIT Jabalpur v. S. Goyanka Lime & Chemical Ltd., (2015) 56 taxmann.com 390 (MP- H.C.), r/w SC order dated 08.07.2025 against the referred MP High Court order in SLP(C) No. 11916/2025, reported in (2015) 64 taxmann.com 313 (SC). The Madhya Pradesh High Court in its order dated 14.10.2014 held that the mechanical way of recording satisfaction by the Joint Commissioner, who accords sanction for issuing notice u/s 148 of the Act, is clearly unsustainable. The aforesaid SLP filed against the order of MP High Court was dismissed by the Apex Court. (ii) ITA No. 428/Agr/2025(A.Y. 2015-16), Govind Sharma v. ITO, order dated 17.04.2026 (Agra-Trib), (iii) ITA No. 554/Agr/2025 (A.Y. 2013-14), Shashi Sogani v. DCIT, order dated 22.06.2026 (Agra-Trib), (iv) ITA No.386/Agr/2025 (A.Y. 2020-21), Pawan Agarwal v. ITO, order dated 26.11.2025 (Agra-Trib) and (v) ITA No. 317/Agr/2025 (A.Y. 2014-15), Banarsi Lal v. ITO, order dated 20.03.2026 (Agra-Trib). 9. Ld Sr DR has submitted that the approval granted u/s 151 is merely an exercise of administrative power, which requires no detailed discussion and has submitted that the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, vide judgement dated 06.10.2025 passed in ITA 60/2024 PCIT v. M/s Agroha Fincap Ltd., has held that the satisfaction recorded by the competent authority that “yes, I am convinced it is a fit case for reopening the assessment u/s 147 by issuing notice u/s 148” satisfies the mandate of section 151A of the Act. Ld Sr DR has further submitted that the SLP(Civil) No. 20867/2026 filed against the Delhi High Court order dated 06.10.2025 was dismissed summarily by the Supreme Court, vide order dated 05.05.2026. Ld Sr DR, thus, prayed to dismiss the legal ground raised by the appellant assessee. 10. We notice that the conflicting decisions given by the M.P. High Court in S. Goyanka Lime & Chemical Ltd. (supra) relied by assessee and Delhi High Court in M/s Agroha Fincap Ltd. (supra), relied by the revenue are both “pertaining to the non jurisdictional High Courts”. The SLPs against both the conflicting decisions have also been summarily dismissed by the Supreme Court. It is settled legal principle that the summary dismissal of SLP by the Supreme Court of India means the Court refuses to interfere with the impugned order under appeal. The doctrine of merger does not apply in such a situation. A summary dismissal does not declare any law under Article 141 of the Constitution. The effect of summary dismissal of SLPs against the conflicting decisions of the non-jurisdictional High Courts order will be that the orders of both the non-jurisdictional High Courts remain entirely independent. In such a fact situation, we take guidance from the decision of the Supreme Court in CIT vs. Vegetable Products Ltd., [1973] 88 ITR 192 (SC), wherein the Apex Court held that if two reasonable constructions of the taxing provision is possible, that construction which favours the assessee must be adopted. 11. We take further guidance from the decision of the co-ordinate bench of the tribunal in Banarsi Lal(supra) which has held as under: “2. The assessee had raised additional grounds before us challenging the validity of assumption of jurisdiction u/s 147 of the Act. These additional grounds go to the root of the matter and the facts relevant for its adjudication are placed on record. Hence, we admit the additional grounds and take up the same first for adjudication. 3. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available on record. The assessee has filed its return of income on 7.6.2016 for AY 2014-15 declaring total income of Rs. 1,85,440/-. This return was treated as non-est by the Id AO. The Ld. AO noted that he had received information that assessee had sold agricultural lands and had derived income from agricultural activities. On the basis of information received, the Ld. AO sought to reopen the assessment of the assessee u/s 147 of the Act vide issuance of notice u/s 148 of the Act on 2.2.2017. The assessee filed return of income on 27.3.2017 in response to notice issued u/s 148 of the Act. The reasons recorded for reopening the assessment together with the approval granted by the Additional CIT, Range 2(2), Firozabad in terms of section 151 of the Act. The approval granted by the Additional CIT, Range 2(2), Firozabad is enclosed in Page 18 of the Paper Book. On perusal of the proforma seeking approval u/s 151 of the Act, we find that the Ld. Addl CIT had merely stated that he is satisfied that this is fit case for reopening. This sort of approval granted u/s 151 of the Act was held to be approval granted without application of mind and construed as mechanical by the Hon’ble Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of CIT Vs. S. Goyenka Lime and Chemicals Ltd reported in 56 taxmann.com 390 (MP HC). The Special Leave Petition (SLP) filed by the revenue against this decision was dismissed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court reported in 64 taxmann.com 313. Further, we find that the Hon’ble Delhi High court in the case of PCIT Vs. NC Cables Ltd reported in 391 ITR 11 (Del) had also held the same, wherein, the approving authority had merely stated “approved” in the proforma while granting approval in terms of section 151 of the Act. This approval was held by the Hon’ble Delhi High court to be a mechanical approval. The Hon’ble Delhi High Court in the recent decision in the case of SBC Minerals P Ltd. vs ACIT reported in 475 ITR 360 (Del) had also held that similar kind of approval granted in a mechanical manner would vitiate the basic assumption of jurisdiction of the Ld. AO resulting in quashing of reassessment proceedings. Similar view was also taken by the Hon’ble Bombay High Court in the case of Vodafone India Ltd. vs DCIT reported in 464 ITR 385 (Bom). 4. Per Contra, the Ld. DR vehemently relied on the following decisions of Hon’ble High Courts to drive home the point where necessary sanction to issue notice under section 148 of the Act was obtained from Principal Commissioner of Income Tax as per provisions of section 151 of the Act, the Principal Commissioner was not required to provide elaborate reasoning to arrive at a finding of approval when he was satisfied with reasons recorded by Assessing Officer :- a) Experion Developers P Ltd. vs ACIT reported in 422 ITR 355 (Del HC) b) Virbhadra Singh vs DCIT reported in 88 taxmann.com 88 (HP HC) c) Sonia Gandhi vs ACIT reported in 407 ITR 594 (Del HC) 5.We find that the various decisions quoted by both the Ld. AR as well as the Ld. DR are non-jurisdictional high courts giving conflicting decisions. We find that the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of CIT vs Vegetable Products Ltd reported in 88 ITR 192 (SC) had held that when there are conflicting decisions of non-jurisdictional high courts on the same issue, then the construction that is favourable to the assessee need to be adopted. Respectfully following the same, we hold that the reopening has been made in the instant case by not taking approval u/s 151 of the Act from the competent authority in the manner known to law. Accordingly, the entire reassessment proceedings are hereby quashed. Hence, one of the additional grounds challenging the validity of assumption of jurisdiction u/s 147 of the Act is allowed in the above mentioned terms. Since the reassessment is quashed, the other legal grounds raised by the assessee as well as the grounds raised by the assessee on merits need not be adjudicated and they are left open.” 12. The Agra Bench of this tribunal in Govind Sharma v. ITO Mathura (supra), in Shashi Sogani v. DCIT (supra) and Pawan Agrawal v. ITO Mathura (supra) have also held that the approvals accorded on behalf of the competent authority in a manner referred hereinabove for reopening u/s 147 of the Act, cannot be treated as an approval in a manner known to law, the consequent assessment proceedings on such mechanical approvals were quashed. 13. The order dated 16.01.2026 passed by the ‘B’ bench of ITAT Delhi in Anil Kumar Jain v DCIT, in ITA No. 475/Del/2025 (A.Y 2013-14) read as under: “7. From the perusal of Performa for granting approval of reopening the assessment, it is observed that there was no mention in Column No. 9 regarding assessment completed passed u/s 143(3) of the Act prior to reopening of assessment. It is further seen that in Column No.17, ld. PCIT has recorded the satisfaction in mechanical manner where it is observed that “on perusal of the reasons recorded satisfied that it is a fit case for notice u/s 148”, however, Ld. PCIT has not referred any material/records before reaching to such satisfaction proceedings u/s 147 of the Act should be initiated though the order u/s 143(3) has already been passed. Further the assessment order u/s 143(3) was passed at a date much later than the date when the survey was carried out at the business premises of the assessee thus it cannot be said that the material found during the survey was fresh material. From the perusal of first para of the reasons recorded we find that AO stated that return of income filed was processed and there is no reference of assessment order passed u/s 143(3) of the Act in the case of the assessee. These facts, clearly suggests that reopening was made without any application of mind. 8. The Hon’ble High Court of Delhi in case cited as SABH Infrastructure Ltd. vs. ACIT in WP (C) 1357/2016 order dated 25.09.2017 has issued guidelines to the Revenue authorities while deciding the issue of reopening u/s 147/148 of the Act. Operative part of which is reproduced as under:- “19. Before parting with the case, the Court would like to observe that on a routine basis, a large number of writ petitions are filed challenging the reopening of assessments by the Revenue under Sections 147 and 148 of the Act and despite numerous judgments on this issue, the same errors are repeated by the concerned Revenue authorities. In this background, the Court would like the Revenue to adhere to the following guidelines in matters of reopening of assessments: (i) while communicating the reasons for reopening the assessment, the copy of the standard form used by the AO for obtaining the approval of the Superior Officer should itself be provided to the Assessee. This would contain the comment or endorsement of the Superior Officer with his name, designation and date. In other words, merely stating the reasons in a letter addressed by the AO to the Assessee is to be avoided; (ii) the reasons to believe ought to spell out all the reasons and grounds available with the AO for reopening the assessment – especially in those cases where the first proviso to Section 147 is attracted. The reasons to believe ought to also paraphrase any investigation report which may form the basis of the reasons and any enquiry conducted by the AO on the same and if so, the conclusions thereof; (iii) where the reasons make a reference to another document, whether as a letter or report, such document and/ or relevant portions of such report should be enclosed along with the reasons; (iv) the exercise of considering the Assessee’s objections to the reopening of assessment is not a mechanical ritual. It is a quasi-judicial function. The order disposing of the objections should deal with each objection and give proper reasons for the conclusion. No attempt should be made to add to the reasons for reopening of the assessment beyond what has already been disclosed.” 9. The Hon’ble Delhi High Court in the case of CIT vs N.C. Cables Ltd. (supra) has observed as under:- “Reassessment-Issuance of Notice-Sanction for issue of Notice-Assessee had in its return for A Y 2001-02 claimed that sum of Rs. 1 Crore was received towards share application amounts and a further sum of Thirty Five Lakhs was credited to it as an advance towards loan-Original assessment was completed u/s 143(3)- However, pursuant to reassessment notice, which was dropped due to technical reasons, and later notice was issued and assessments were taken up afresh-After considering submissions of assessee and documents produced in reassessment proceedings, AO added back a sum of Rs.1,35,00,000/- – CIT(A) held against assessee an legality of reassessment notice but allowed assessee’s appeal on merits holding that AO did not conduct appropriate enquiry to conclude that share inclusion and advance received were from bogus entities-Tribunal allowed assessee’s appeal on merits-Revenue appealed against appellate order on merits- Assessee’s cross appeal was on correctness of reopening of assessment- Tribunal upheld, assessee’s cross-objections and dismissed Revenue’s appeal holding that there was no proper application of mind by concerned sanctioning authority u/s Section 151 as a pre-condition for issuing notice u/s 147/148-Held, Section 151 stipulates that CIT (A), who was competent authority to authorize reassessment notice, had to apply his mind and form opinion-Mere appending of expression ‘approved’ says nothing-It was not as if CIT (A) had to record elaborate reasons for agreeing with noting put up-At same time, satisfaction had to be recorded of given case which could be reflected in briefest possible manner-In present case, exercise appears to have been ritualistic and formal rather than meaningful, which was rationale for safeguard of approval by higher ranking officer-Revenue’s appeal dismissed.” 10. Further, reliance placed in the judgement of Hon’ble Bombay High Court in the case of Saraswat CO-operative Bank Ltd. vs ACIT & Others [2025] 473 ITR 205 (Bom.) wherein Hon’ble Bombay High Court has held as under:- Sanction mechanism under section 151 21. Evidently, the reassessment was first proposed internally on March 24, 2021 by the jurisdictional Assessing Officer, and was recommended by a Range Officer on March 25, 2021, and approved by the Principal Commissioner of Income-tax on the same day all under section 151 of the Act. Therefore, the reassessment has been contemplated and initiated one year after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year d (2015-16). Therefore, failure by the petitioner to disclose material facts was a jurisdictional imperative, which was simply incapable of being discerned from the material on record. Therefore, we have no hesitation in holding that the Revenue’s bid to initiate reassessment is unfounded and in direct conflict with section 147 of the Act. Therefore, the sanction for reassessment under section 151 could simply not have been given. 22. The requirement for sanction by a high-ranking official under section 151, is an inherent check and balance in the statutory scheme of the Act. Such officers are expected to apply their mind to the facts and the applicable law and then accord sanction. In the instant case, the proposed reassessment was sanctioned by the Principal Commissioner of Income-tax, with the following remarks: “Yes, I am satisfied with the reasons recorded by the Assessing Officer for issuance of notice under section 148 of the Income-tax Act, 1961.” (emphasis1 supplied) 23. The power to sanction reassessment under section 151, is coupled with a duty to exercise such power reasonably, and not arbitrarily. It is trite law that absence of valid reasons constitutes arbitrariness. In the instant case, the entire process of according sanction demonstrates non-application of mind to the ingredients of section 147, rendering the sanction to be h arbitrary, calling for intervention by a writ court. Evidently, the proposal, the recommendation and the approval in the instant case was mechanical, without either application of mind to the law and the facts or even a modicum of how the ingredients of the law had been met. In short, the machinery under section 151 completely failed. 24. The imperative requirement of compliance with the ingredients of section 147 and section 148 is underlined in innumerable judgments. However, we note with respect and approval, a judgment of a Division Bench of this court cited on behalf of the petitioner, in the case of Hindustan Lever Ltd. v. R. B. Wadkar (per V. C. Daga and J. P. Devadhar JJ.), and profitably extract the following (page 337 of 268 ITR): “Reading of the proviso to section 147 makes it clear that if the Assessing Officer has reason to believe that any income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for any assessment year, he may, subject to the provisions of sections 148 to 153, assess or reassess such income and also any other income chargeable to tax which has escaped assessment and which comes to his notice subsequently in the course of the proceeding under section 147, or recompute the loss or the depreciation allowance or any other allowance, as the case may be, for the concerned assessment year. However, where an assessment under sub-section (3) of section 143 has been made for the relevant assessment year, no action can be taken under section 147 after the expiry of four years from the end of the relevant assessment year, unless any income chargeable to tax has escaped assessment for such assessment year by reasons of the failure on the part of the assessee to disclose all material facts necessary for his assessment for that assessment year. In the case in hand it is not in dispute that the assessment year involved is 1996-97. The last date of the said assessment year was March 31, 1997 and from that date if four years are counted, the period of four years expired on March 31, 2001. The notice issued is dated November 5, 2002 and received by the assessee on November 7, 2002. Under these circumstances, the notice is clearly beyond the period of four years. The reasons recorded by the Assessing Officer nowhere state that there was failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for the assessment of that assessment year. It is needless to mention that the reasons are required to be read as they were recorded by the Assessing Officer. No substitution or deletion is permissible. No additions can be made to those reasons. No inference can be allowed to be drawn based on reasons not recorded. It is for the Assessing Officer to disclose and open his mind through reasons recorded by him. He has to speak through his reasons. It is for the Assessing Officer to reach to the conclusion as to whether there was failure on the part of the assessee to disclose fully and truly all material facts necessary for his assessment for the concerned assessment year. It is for the Assessing Officer to form his opinion. It is for him to put his opinion on record in black and white. The reasons recorded should be clear and unambiguous and should not suffer from any vagueness. The reasons recorded must disclose his mind. Reasons are the manifestation of mind of the Assessing Officer. The reasons recorded should be self-explanatory and should not keep the assessee guessing for the reasons. Reasons provide link between conclusion and evidence. The reasons recorded must be based on evidence. The Assessing Officer, in the event of challenge to the reasons must be able to justify the same based on material available on record. He must disclose in the reasons as to which fact or material was not disclosed by the assessee fully and truly necessary for assessment of that assessment year, so as to establish vital link between the reasons and evidence. That vital link is the safeguard against arbitrary reopening of the concluded assessment. The reasons recorded by the Assessing Officer cannot be supplemented by filing affidavit or making oral submission, otherwise, the reasons which were lacking in the material particulars would get supplemented, by the time the matter reaches to the court, on the strength of the affidavit or oral submissions advanced. Having recorded our finding that the impugned notice itself is beyond the period of four years from the end of the assessment year 1996-97 and does not comply with the requirements of the proviso to section 147 of the Act, the Assessing Officer had no jurisdiction to reopen the assessment proceedings which were concluded on the basis of assessment under section 143(3) of the Act. On this short count alone the impugned notice is liable to be quashed and set aside.” (emphasis1 supplied) 25. Having regard to the foregoing and in view of the findings returned by us, the writ petition deserves to be allowed in the following terms: “(A) The order dated March 25, 2021 sanctioning the reassessment under section 151 of the Act; the impugned notice dated March 30, 2021 issued under section 148 of the Act; the impugned order dated February 25, 2022 rejecting the objections raised by the petitioner are declared to be arbitrary and devoid of valid reasons and, therefore, illegal; (B) Consequently, the order dated March 25, 2021 sanctioning the reassessment under section 151 of the Act; the impugned notice dated March 30, 2021 issued under section 148 of the Act; the impugned order dated February 25, 2022 and all consequential proceedings in respect of the reassessment are hereby quashed and set aside.” 26. Rule is made absolute in the aforesaid terms, and the writ petition is disposed of accordingly. There shall be no order as to costs.” 14. As regards the arguments of ld Sr DR for the revenue, that the approval granted u/s 151 is merely an exercise of administrative power and requires no detailed discussion, it is well settled that even the administrative orders, are required to be supported with reasons. Hon’ble Supreme Court in State of H.P. V. Mustaque Ahmad, 2007 (58) ACC 382 (SC), has held that it is desirable that even administrative orders should be supported by reasons. Hon’ble Apex Court in State of Rajasthan v. Rohitas and Ors., 2008 (61) ACC 678(SC), has held that orders being supported with reasons is a sign to good governance. Failure to give reasons amount to denial of justice. In Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner, AIR 1978 SC 851, Hon’ble Supreme Court held that where validity of an administrative order is challenged, all reasons for passing such an order should be contained in the order itself. If all reasons are not given in the order, they cannot be subsequently supplemented at an after thought by way of an affidavit. Justice Krishna Iyer observed “orders are not like old wine, becoming better as they grow older”. Hon’ble Apex Court, in U Manjunath v. U Chandrasekhar 2017(6) Supreme 19, has held that it is well settled in law that reason is the life of law, it is that filament that injects soul to the judgment, absence of analysis not only evinces non application of mind but mummifies the core spirit of judgement. The absence of reasons in the process of adjudication makes the ultimate decision pregnable. In M/s Kranti Associates Pvt Ltd & Anr v. Masood Ahmed Khan & Ors, (2010) 9 SCC 496, the Supreme Court, while dealing with the requirement of passing a reasoned order by an authority, whether administrative, quasi judicial or judicial, has observed that insistence on reason is a requirement for both judicial accountability and transparency. 15. In the instant case, even if the approval order is treated as purely an administrative order, it is to be supported with reason, which are missing in the approval granted by the ld PCIT for issuance of notice u/s 148 of the Act. The approval u/s 151 of the Act, accorded on a proforma for initiating proceedings u/s 147 of the Act, is part of assessee’s paper book at page no. 10, which clearly shows that ld PCIT (competent authority) has endorsed as “in view of the reasons recorded by the AO, I am satisfied that this is a fit case for issue of notice u/s 148”. This sort of sanction accorded u/s 151 is almost in the similar fashion as has been referred hereinabove. Respectfully following the reasoning given by Hon’ble M.P. High Court in S. Goyanka Lime(supra) and by the coordinate bench of the tribunal in Banarsi Lal (supra) on the basis of Hon’ble Supreme Court’s decision in Vegetable Products Ltd. (supra), we hold that the sanction accorded u/s 151 of the Act, in the present case is accorded in a mechanical manner without application of mind, hence the same is invalid. The consequential reassessment is hereby quashed. Since we have quashed the reassessment order, the other grounds of appeal are rendered academic, hence, not being adjudicated and are left open. 16. In the result, assessee’s appeal is allowed. Order pronounced in the Open Court on- 30.09.2026 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under ITAT Judgmentssection 143(3)Section 147Section 148Section 250Section 69A Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,875 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty Mechanical Section 151 Sanction Invalidates Reassessment: ITAT Agra October 3, 2026 Mechanical Section 151 Approval Invalidates Reassessment Proceedings: ITAT Agra October 3, 2026 ITAT Hyderabad Deletes Section 69C Addition, Allows Section 80IA Interest Deduction Subject to Verification October 3, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Mechanical Section 151 Approval Invalidates Reassessment Proceedings: ITAT Agra October 3, 2026 ITAT Hyderabad Deletes Section 69C Addition, Allows Section 80IA Interest Deduction Subject to Verification October 3, 2026 Cost Recovery Needs No Mark-up; Merger Deduction Survives the Fifth Year October 3, 2026 Penalties Deleted for Failure to Specify Charge: ITAT Hyderabad October 3, 2026 AO Cannot Abruptly Replace DCF With NAV for Share Valuation: ITAT Hyderabad October 3, 2026 12AB Application Rejection Cannot Automatically Cancel Existing Registration: ITAT Chandigarh October 3, 2026