Summary: This piece examines the legal framework underlying a reported boardroom dispute at Tata Sons following the 17 September 2026 vote to reappoint N. Chandrasekaran as chairman for a further five-year term, while expressly leaving the merits of the competing positions unresolved. It explains that the Companies Act 2013 regulates directors, managing directors, whole-time directors and key managerial personnel, but does not itself prescribe a comprehensive mechanism for selecting or reappointing the Chairman of the Board as such. The analysis therefore turns to the company’s Articles of Association, which operate as the company’s internal regulations and have binding force, together with the model Articles in Schedule I where applicable. It highlights the entrenchment mechanism under Section 5, through which specified Articles may be made subject to conditions more restrictive than those applicable to an ordinary special resolution, and explains how such provisions can create a consent or nominee-veto structure around a particular governance decision. The reported Tata Sons position concerning Article 121A, the two Tata Trusts nominees, the 4-1 vote, the reported casting-vote issue and a supporting legal opinion is presented as contested reporting rather than as a settled legal conclusion. Three broader interpretive questions are then identified: whether a specific nominee-consent requirement prevails over a general casting-vote provision, whether a chairman participating in his own reappointment raises questions under board-meeting and interested-director principles, and whether an earlier decision not to seek reappointment can subsequently be revisited. The article concludes that, for governance review purposes, the Articles and applicable Secretarial Standards must be examined alongside the statute rather than relying solely on the headline board vote. Companies Act 2013, entrenched Articles of Association, and Secretarial Standard SS-1, read through a boardroom dispute that broke this week On 17 September 2026, the Tata Sons board voted 4-1 to reappoint N. Chandrasekaran as chairman for a further five-year term. Noel Tata, one of two directors nominated by Tata Trusts, cast the dissenting vote, and Tata Trusts issued a statement the same day calling the resolution a legal nullity under the company’s Articles of Association. Within hours, the dispute had produced two competing readings of the same clause, a legal opinion from a former Chief Justice of India, and a live question that most restructuring and governance memos never have to answer under this much time pressure: who, exactly, gets to decide who chairs a board, and where does that authority actually sit — in the statute, or in the Articles? Table of Contents▸ What the Companies Act actually governs Where the real rule lives: Section 5 and the Articles What is reported at Tata Sons Three questions any such Article puts to work The framework, side by side Why this belongs in an audit and secretarial file, not just a newsroom Closing thought Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); What the Companies Act actually governs The Companies Act 2013 has a great deal to say about who may become a director, how a managing director or whole-time director is appointed, and how key managerial personnel are removed. Section 196 sets eligibility conditions and a maximum term of five years at a time for managing directors, whole-time directors and managers. Section 203 requires certain classes of company to appoint specified key managerial personnel and restricts a person from holding certain offices simultaneously. None of this touches the office of Chairman of the Board as such. “Chairman” appears throughout the Act and the Secretarial Standards as a procedural role — the person who presides at a meeting, signs the minutes, and in some formulations holds a casting vote — but the Act does not prescribe how a company selects the individual who fills that role, for how long, or on what conditions of reappointment. Whether the Chairman is also a whole-time executive (as at Tata Sons) is a separate question governed by Sections 196 and 203; the chairmanship itself is left entirely to the company’s own Articles. This is a narrower gap than it looks. It means a company is free to build almost any governance architecture it wants around the office of Chairman — rotation, tenure caps, nominee vetoes, selection committees — provided it does so through its Articles, because the statute has deliberately left the space open. Where the real rule lives: Section 5 and the Articles Section 5 of the Companies Act 2013 defines the Articles of Association as the company’s own regulations for management, and Section 10 gives them contractual force: they bind the company and every member as if each had signed them. Schedule I (Table F) supplies a default set of Articles that apply only to the extent a company has not displaced them with its own drafting — and the default position on chairmanship is thin. The standard regulations contemplate directors electing a chairman from among themselves for the purposes of a meeting, with a casting vote for the presiding chairman where votes are equal. That default is a general, residual rule, built for companies that have not bothered to write anything more specific. A company that wants something more specific — a chairman appointed by resolution for a fixed term, subject to conditions attached to particular shareholders or nominee directors — has to write that into its own Articles, displacing Table F. And a company that wants that specific provision to be genuinely difficult to dislodge by an ordinary board majority has a further tool available: Section 5(3) and 5(4) permit an entrenchment provision, under which specified clauses of the Articles can be altered only by a more restrictive procedure than an ordinary special resolution — up to and including the consent of specified persons. Section 5(5) then requires the company to notify the Registrar wherever such entrenched provisions exist. A bespoke Article requiring a specific class of nominee director to be present and to vote affirmatively before a chairman can be appointed or reappointed is exactly the kind of provision entrenchment is built for. It converts what would otherwise be an ordinary board decision, resolved by a simple majority, into a decision that a defined minority can block outright — a structure that only makes sense where the shareholders who negotiated it wanted a permanent check on who runs the company, not a majority-rule outcome that shifts with the composition of the board on any given day. What is reported at Tata Sons According to Tata Trusts’ public statement and subsequent reporting, Tata Sons’ Articles — reportedly Article 121A — require that both directors nominated by the Trusts be present at, and vote in favour of, any board resolution appointing or reappointing the Chairman, and that this requirement applies equally to a first appointment and to a reappointment. The Trusts’ position is that Mr Chandrasekaran’s own communication on 12 August 2026, declining to seek another term, was accepted by the Trusts the following day and had already attained finality; that the board’s attempt to revisit the question on 17 September was therefore procedurally improper in its own right; and that, in any event, the resolution passed with only one of the two Trust nominee directors voting in favour — Noel Tata voted against — which on their reading fails the Article’s own test regardless of the 4-1 headline count. Reporting also describes a further wrinkle: that the two Trust nominee directors were themselves split, and that this deadlock between them was resolved by treating it as capable of a casting vote — cast, on this account, by the presiding chairman, who was also the subject of the resolution. Tata Trusts has reportedly submitted a supporting legal opinion from Justice Dr D.Y. Chandrachud, former Chief Justice of India. None of this is settled. It is one party’s characterisation, issued within hours of the vote, of a clause that has not yet been tested before a court or tribunal, against facts the other side may frame differently. What can be said with more confidence is what kind of legal questions a clause drafted this way inevitably raises — and that framework travels well beyond this one boardroom. Three questions any such Article puts to work Specific versus general: where an Article grants the presiding chairman a general casting vote in the event of a tie, and a separate, more specific Article requires the affirmative vote of a defined class of director for a defined category of resolution, the ordinary canon of construction is that the specific provision governs over the general one. A dispute over whether a casting-vote mechanism can be used to satisfy a class-consent requirement is, at bottom, a dispute about which of two genuinely applicable provisions was meant to yield to the other. Interest and impartiality: quite apart from the Articles dispute, a chairman presiding over — and, on this account, casting a deciding vote on — a resolution for his own reappointment sits uneasily with the general principle that a person should not judge his own cause. Secretarial Standard SS-1 addresses interested directors for the purpose of quorum and participation in board meetings; whether a director’s own appointment or reappointment triggers those provisions, and what a properly governed board should do about it procedurally, is a live question independent of how the entrenchment clause itself reads. Finality of a voluntary act: where an individual has communicated a decision not to seek reappointment, and the board (or a controlling shareholder) has stated that it accepts that decision, a separate question arises as to whether that decision can later be revisited at the board’s own instance without a fresh act of consent from the person who made it — or whether, once accepted, it operates as a completed, irrevocable step in the same way a resignation once accepted ordinarily cannot be unilaterally withdrawn. The framework, side by side Why this belongs in an audit and secretarial file, not just a newsroom For a statutory auditor or company secretary, the Tata Sons dispute is a vivid illustration of an ordinary working-paper discipline: a board resolution is only as good as its compliance with the Articles under which it was passed, and that compliance is not established by counting hands. Where a company’s Articles contain bespoke consent or nominee-veto provisions — common in promoter-controlled, PE-backed, or trust-controlled structures — the file should record not just the headline vote but the identity of each voting director, their nominating shareholder if any, and an explicit cross-reference to the specific Article the resolution is required to satisfy. “The board approved the resolution by majority” is not evidence that a nominee-consent Article has been satisfied; it may be evidence of exactly the opposite. It is also a reminder that entrenchment provisions, once notified to the Registrar under Section 5(5), are a matter of public record and ought to be checked, not assumed, whenever a governance-sensitive resolution is being reviewed — whether that resolution concerns a chairman, a related-party transaction requiring a supermajority, or any other decision a company’s shareholders have deliberately chosen to insulate from an ordinary board majority. Closing thought The Companies Act tells a company almost nothing about who should chair its board. It tells the company, instead, that it is free to decide that question for itself, in its own Articles, and to make that decision as hard or as easy to unwind as its shareholders choose. Tata Sons appears to have chosen “hard.” Whether the mechanism it built has been correctly applied this week is a question for lawyers and, quite possibly, for a tribunal. But the underlying lesson holds regardless of how that question is resolved: in Indian company law, the statute sets the floor, and the Articles — not the boardroom’s headline vote count — are where the real rule usually lives. This piece is based on public reporting as of 17 September 2026, on an ongoing and contested dispute. Facts described as “reported” or attributed to a party’s statement may be superseded by later developments, filings, or judicial findings. ***** About Author: Arnab Gautam Mitra is a Senior Executive in the audit practice at a top CA Firm, Mumbai, with close to fifteen years of experience across statutory audit, internal audit, tax audit, FEMA and ODI compliance and Ind AS implementation, on engagements in banking, mining, real estate and manufacturing. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013 Author Info Name: Arnab Mitra Qualification: Student - CA/CS/CMA Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 4 View full profile → More from Arnab Mitra Draft Red Herring Prospectus: Understanding Its IPO Disclosure & Auditor Role September 17, 2026 Pre-IPO Runway: What 18 Months Before DRHP Filing Actually Demand September 11, 2026 Ceteris Paribus: When All Else Isn’t Equal September 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law Related Party Transactions Under Companies Act: Approvals, Disclosure & Compliance September 19, 2026 AGM Deadline Missed? Here’s Why Form GNL-1 Won’t Save You September 18, 2026 Fast Track Merger Under Section 233: Eligibility, Procedure, Forms and Changes September 17, 2026 Format of Notice of AGM And E-Voting Information September 17, 2026 Company Strike Off Under Section 248: Procedure, Eligibility & STK-2 September 15, 2026 NCLAT Upholds Oppression-Mismanagement Findings in Exclusive Capital NBFC Dispute September 13, 2026