Summary: Negligence generally refers to a failure to exercise the degree of care and skill required in the circumstances, while gross negligence denotes a more serious degree of failure, often involving serious disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk. Indian contract law does not expressly distinguish negligence from gross negligence. Section 73 and Section 74 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 prescribe rules concerning damages for breach, while contractual treatment of negligence or gross negligence largely depends upon the terms agreed between the parties. Indian courts have considered contractual allocations involving gross negligence, including in Ocean Sparkle Limited v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. English law expressly defines negligence under Section 1(1) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 and regulates exclusion or restriction of negligence liability through Section 2. English decisions including Red Sea Tankers, Camerata, Winnetka and Wilson v. Brett illustrate differing approaches to gross negligence. Some authorities treat the distinction as essentially one of degree, while others give separate contractual significance to gross negligence where parties deliberately distinguish it from ordinary negligence. Consequently, the contractual language, context, allocation of obligations and degree of departure from the required standard of care remain important in determining the scope and consequences of gross negligence. Table of Contents▸ Meaning of Negligence and Gross Negligence Indian Legal Position Statutory Position Judicial Interpretation English Legal Position Statutory Position Section 2 of the UCTA[7] provides: Judicial Interpretation Conclusion Distinction between Negligence and Gross Negligence in Contractual Context Show all 10 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Meaning of Negligence and Gross Negligence In the Concise Oxford English Dictionary,[1] the term ‘Negligence’ is defined and explained as under: “Negligence is the failure to take proper care over something. Breach of a duty of care which results in damage.” Whereas the definition of ‘Gross Negligence’ provided under Black’s Law Dictionary is defined as: “a lack of even slight diligence or care. The difference between gross negligence and ordinary negligence is one of degree, not of quality. Gross negligence is traditionally said to be the omission of even such diligence as habitually careless and inattentive people do actually exercise in avoiding danger to their own person or property.”[2] Gross negligence is generally understood as a higher degree of failure to adhere to a standard of care which would be expected from a prudent person in similar circumstances. While the term negligence has not been explicitly defined in Indian statutes, the concept arises from the idea of a ‘duty of care’ owed by one person to another. Indian Legal Position Statutory Position The Contract law contains no explicit provisions distinguishing negligence and gross negligence. Sections 73[3] and 74 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872[4], stipulate general rules for damages for breach of contract, but they do not use the terms negligence or gross negligence. Liability arises from breach of contract or indemnity agreements, not tort concepts. Thus, negligence in a contract is typically assessed by the parties’ agreement or by general principles of compensatory damages. Judicial Interpretation The courts have recognised the distinction between negligence and gross negligence in the context of contractual arrangements, particularly where the parties themselves have expressly differentiated between the two in clauses governing limitation of liability or indemnification. In Ocean Sparkle Limited v. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd.,[5] for instance, the parties had expressly incorporated the scope of gross negligence in their contractual allocation of liability. The Court therefore examined the parties’ conduct against the standard stipulated in the contract and adjudicated the issue with reference to the contractual clause agreed between them. The decision is indicative of a broader approach whereby the scope and meaning of gross negligence are examined in the context of the particular contractual arrangement, rather than by applying an independent or universally prescribed test detached from the terms of the contract. Thus, while the distinction between negligence and gross negligence is recognised, there appears to be comparatively limited judicial development in India of an autonomous test delineating the precise threshold between the two in contractual cases. Instead, the determination tends to depend upon the language, allocation of obligations, and context of the contract in each case. English Legal Position Statutory Position Unlike Indian law, the United Kingdom has expressly defined ‘Negligence under Section 1(1) of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 (“UCTA”). Further, Section 2 of the UCTA specifically regulates contractual terms seeking to exclude or restrict liability for negligence, subject to the statutory limitations and requirement of reasonableness. The relevant provisions are reproduced verbatim below: Section 1(1) of the UCTA[6] provides: “For the purposes of this Part of this Act, ‘negligence’ means the breach – (a) of any obligation, arising from the express or implied terms of a contract, to take reasonable care or exercise reasonable skill in the performance of the contract; (b) of any common law duty to take reasonable care or exercise reasonable skill (but not any stricter duty); (c) of the common duty of care imposed by the Occupiers’ Liability Act 1957 or the Occupiers’ Liability Act (Northern Ireland) 1957.” Section 2 of the UCTA[7] provides: “Negligence liability- (1) A person cannot by reference to any contract term or to a notice given to persons generally or to particular persons exclude or restrict his liability for death or personal injury resulting from negligence. (2)In the case of other loss or damage, a person cannot so exclude or restrict his liability for negligence except in so far as the term or notice satisfies the requirement of reasonableness. (3)Where a contract term or notice purports to exclude or restrict liability for negligence a person’s agreement to or awareness of it is not of itself to be taken as indicating his voluntary acceptance of any risk. (4)This section does not apply to— (a) a term in a consumer contract, or (b) a notice to the extent that it is a consumer notice.” Judicial Interpretation While the term ‘gross’ may carry a distinct meaning in certain jurisdictions, English law does not generally recognise a separate legal distinction between negligence and gross negligence. The conduct is either negligent, involving a failure to exercise reasonable skill and care in performing contractual obligations or to avoid foreseeable harm, or it is not. The relevance of gross negligence under English law therefore arises principally where the contract expressly incorporates the term. In such cases, the question becomes whether the parties intended the use of gross to raise the threshold for establishing a breach or triggering a contractual obligation, such as an indemnity. This may consequently give rise to disputes as to the intended meaning of gross negligence and whether the conduct in question is sufficiently serious to satisfy that threshold. Therefore, the courts have considered this issue on several occasions, and although there is no consensus as to the difference between negligence and gross negligence, and the matter is judged on a case-by-case basis, there are several cases that provide some guidance. In Red Sea Tankers Ltd. v. Papachristidis (The “Ardent”),[8] the court interpreted the difference between negligence and gross negligence. The court observed that the: “concept of gross negligence appeared to embrace serious negligence amounting to reckless disregard without any necessary implication of consciousness of the high degree of risk or the likely consequences of the conduct on the part of the person acting or omitting to act. “Gross” negligence was clearly intended to represent something more fundamental than failure to exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence; but as a matter of ordinary language and general impression the concept of gross negligence seemed to be capable of embracing not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation of the risks involved but also serious disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk.” Further, in Camerata Property Inc. v. Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd.,[9] the Court, on the question of gross negligence, held that this had to be considered in view of the contract as a whole as opposed to being a strictly defined concept under English law. It was observed that where a contract expressly uses the terms negligence and gross negligence separately, the parties must be taken to have intended a distinction between the two. The Court construed gross negligence as conduct going beyond a mere failure to exercise reasonable skill and care, encompassing conduct involving serious disregard of, or indifference to, an obvious risk. Thus, the meaning of gross negligence in a contractual provision must be determined by reference to the language and context of the contract, rather than by treating gross negligence as legally indistinguishable from ordinary negligence. This is another case in which the Courts have focused on the intention of the parties, rather than just the strict words in the contract, in order to determine what the contract really means. The above-mentioned case was followed shortly thereafter by Winnetka Trading Corporation v. Julius Baer International Ltd.,[10] which is the most recent case to consider gross negligence. Consistent with the approach adopted in Camerata, the court held that negligence and gross negligence could not be construed as having the same meaning and that their meaning had to be determined by reference to the terms of the contract. A different approach was taken in Wilson v. Brett,[11] wherein Baron Rolfe observed that he “could see no difference between negligence and gross negligence,” considering the latter to be essentially the same as negligence, with the addition of a “vituperative epithet.” This means he considered gross to be an abusive or intensifying word that adds no real legal meaning or distinct standard to regular negligence. Further, the difference between ordinary and gross negligence has been interpreted as “one of degree, not kind.”[12] Moreover, the distinction between gross, ordinary and slight negligence is essentially one of degree of care required in the circumstances, rather than a difference like the negligence itself. Ultimately, each represents a failure to exercise the care and skill demanded by the circumstances, reflecting the modern tendency to treat them simply as different degrees of negligence.[13] The relevant observations of the Court in this regard are reproduced verbatim below: “We have already adverted to the tendency of judicial opinion adverse to the distinction between gross and ordinary negligence. Strictly speaking, these expressions are indicative rather of the degree of care and diligence which is due from a party and which he fails to perform, than of the amount of inattention, carelessness, or stupidity which he exhibits. If very little care is due from him, and he fails to bestow that little, it is called gross negligence. If very great care is due, and he fails to come up to the mark required, it is called slight negligence. And if ordinary care is due, such as a prudent man would exercise in his own affairs, failure to bestow that amount of care is called ordinary negligence. In each case, the negligence, whatever epithet we give it, is failure to bestow the care and skill which the situation demands; and hence it is more strictly accurate perhaps to call it simply ‘negligence.’ And this seems to be the tendency of modern authorities.” It is further pertinent to note that ‘culpa lata dolo aequiparatur’ is a principle of Roman law which equates gross negligence with fraud or intentional wrongdoing. In essence, it recognises that serious carelessness may attract the same consequences as deliberate deceit. The principle is relevant to the determination of civil liability, particularly in the contractual context, where parties are expected to act responsibly and comply with their contractual obligations; failure to do so through gross negligence may, in certain circumstances, be treated akin to intentional wrongdoing. However, despite the presence of case law on the matter, the difference between negligence and gross negligence in English contract law still remains largely undefined. Conclusion The authorities indicate that there is no uniformly settled or independently prescribed distinction between negligence and gross negligence under English law. While Wilson v. Brett and the authorities recognising the distinction as one of degree suggest that gross negligence may represent only a higher degree of negligence, Camerata and Winnetka demonstrate that where the parties have expressly used negligence and gross negligence as separate contractual standards, the distinction is given contractual significance. Accordingly, in the contractual context, the meaning and scope of gross negligence are likely to depend substantially on the language and context of the particular contract and the allocation of obligations agreed between the parties. Distinction between Negligence and Gross Negligence in Contractual Context Basis Negligence Gross Negligence Nature Refers to a failure to exercise the care and skill required in the circumstances, including failure to take reasonable care or exercise reasonable skill in the performance of a contract. Represents a more serious degree of failure to exercise the care and skill required, going beyond ordinary negligence. Degree of care Involves failure to meet the ordinary standard of care expected in the circumstances. Involves a substantially higher degree of want of care, including serious disregard of or indifference to an obvious risk. Difference in principle Negligence and gross negligence may be understood as differing in degree rather than in kind. Gross negligence is not necessarily a separate category of conduct; its distinction from negligence lies principally in the degree of departure from the required standard of care. Approach under Indian law Indian law does not expressly define negligence in the contractual context. Contractual liability generally arises from breach of contractual obligations, with negligence assessed by reference to the contractual terms and general principles governing damages. Indian courts have recognised the distinction particularly where the contract itself expressly differentiates between negligence and gross negligence in limitation or indemnification clauses. English contractual approach Under UCTA, negligence expressly includes breach of an express or implied contractual obligation to take reasonable care or exercise reasonable skill in performing the contract. There is no universally prescribed definition. Where the contract separately uses negligence and gross negligence, courts have treated the distinction as intentional and interpreted it in the context of the contract. Camerata Property Inc. v. Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd. approach Represents the ordinary failure to exercise reasonable skill and care. Requires more than mere negligence and may encompass conduct involving serious disregard of, or indifference to, an obvious risk. Winnetka Trading Corporation v. Julius Baer International Ltd. approach Where used separately in the contract, it cannot simply be treated as synonymous with gross negligence. Must be given a meaning distinct from negligence, with that meaning determined by reference to the contractual terms. Wilson v. Brett approach Negligence was treated as encompassing the failure to exercise the care required by the circumstances. The Court took the view that there was no real difference between negligence and gross negligence, describing gross as merely a vituperative epithet. [1] Concise Oxford English Dictionary, 11th Edition. [2] Black’s Law Dictionary, 10th Edition. [3] Sections 73, Indian Contract Act, 1872. [4] Sections 74, Indian Contract Act, 1872. [5] 2022 SCC OnLine Bom 1138, para. 20, Clause 16(B). [6] Section 1(1), Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977. [7] Section 2, Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977. [8] [1997] 2 Lloyd’s Rep 547. [9] [2011] EWHC 479, at para. 160,161. [10] [2011] EWHC 2030 (Ch), at para. 16. [11] (1843) 152 ER 737. [12] Armitage v. Nurse, Ch 241. [13] Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 84 U.S. 357, 21 L.Ed. 627, 17 Wall. 357, pg. 382. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Indian Contract Act 1872 Author Info Name: Ayushi prakash Qualification: Student - Others Location: Noida, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Ayushi prakash Private Placement, Rights Issue & Preferential Allotment Procedure Under Companies Act September 21, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law EPF Wage Ceiling Increased from ₹15,000 to ₹25,000: What Employers Need to Know September 21, 2026 NCLT Must Pass Reasoned Order on Pre-Existing Quality Dispute: NCLAT Delhi September 21, 2026 Moonshine Disputes Cannot Block Section 9 CIRP Admission: NCLAT Delhi September 21, 2026 Settlement MOU Does Not Convert Construction Dues Into Non-Operational Debt: NCLAT Delhi September 21, 2026 IBBI Clarifies End of Interim Moratorium for Personal Guarantors September 21, 2026 PFRDA Adjudicating Officer Inquiry Amendment Regulations 2026 September 21, 2026