#AD Choosing the right add-on can enhance the financial protection offered by a car insurance policy. A zero-depreciation add-on reduces the depreciation deductions on eligible car parts when settling claims, subject to policy terms. As a result, it can make repairing expenses more predictable after an insured incident. When exploring car insurance online, understanding the costs, benefits, and suitability is essential to make an informed choice. Continue reading to explore when a zero depreciation cover is worth considering. Table of Contents▸ What is Zero Depreciation Car Insurance? What are the Benefits of Choosing a Zero Depreciation Car Insurance? Enhanced Protection for New Cars Lower Out of Pocket Expenses Better Financial Decision Is Zero Depreciation Cover Worth It? Consider Zero Depreciation Cover from IndusInd General Insurance Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); What is Zero Depreciation Car Insurance? Zero depreciation car insurance is an add-on that can help lower the impact of depreciation while settling claims for covered repairs. With a standard car insurance policy, depreciation on certain car parts is deducted from the claim amount. Choosing this add-on, the insurer might not apply such depreciation deductions for any eligible parts, subject to policy term, limit and exclusion. It ensures you receive the full claim amount for replaced car parts without considering depreciation. What are the Benefits of Choosing a Zero Depreciation Car Insurance? A zero depreciation add-on offers broader financial protection for insured cars. Here are some benefits of choosing a zero depreciation car insurance: Enhanced Protection for New Cars New cars come with higher repair costs, particularly if parts need replacement after an accident. A zero depreciation cover may help minimise the depreciation deduction on eligible replaced parts in the event of a claim. Lower Out of Pocket Expenses With zero depreciation cover, depreciation deductions on car parts may be reduced or excluded, depending on the policy. This reduces the amount that the policyholder needs to pay for repair. However, some deductibles and other applicable charges may still apply. Better Financial Decision The add-on typically comes with an additional premium. The value depends on the car’s age, repair costs and usage. The additional premium might be worth it for owners looking for stronger claim support. A proper comparison of the add-on coverage, limits, exclusions and premium can determine if it suits the car insurance requirements. Is Zero Depreciation Cover Worth It? Zero depreciation cover is beneficial for car owners looking for comprehensive financial protection. It can help lower the depreciation deduction on covered parts. This add-on can be especially beneficial for newer cars, where parts might be more expensive. This add-on comes with an additional premium, however, and may have certain limitations, exclusions or conditions. Instead of paying a lump sum out of pocket, it may be better to pay a higher premium. With a zero-depreciation add-on, you can also get better value for your vehicle if it is stolen or severely damaged. Thus, it is an ideal decision to invest in a zero-depreciation add-on cover. Consider Zero Depreciation Cover from IndusInd General Insurance IndusInd General Insurance provides zero depreciation as an add-on cover to eligible car insurance plans. This cover helps eliminate depreciation deductions on eligible car parts during claim settlement. It might cover parts such as fibres, rubber and plastic parts. IndusInd General Insurance also offers online options to purchase and renew car insurance, as well as to choose the add-on. Reviewing the eligibility conditions, claim limit, exclusions, and policy terms can help you assess whether the cover suits your vehicle. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Financial Planning Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance IFSCA Unifies Insider Trading and Market Abuse Rules in IFSC September 8, 2026 IFSCA Expands Rating Withdrawal Flexibility for IFSC CRAs September 8, 2026 Bank Lost Title Deeds: Bombay HC Awards ₹5,000 Daily Until Reconstruction September 8, 2026 Tax and Corporate Compliance for AI Businesses in India: An Astro247 Case Study September 8, 2026 From First Enquiry to Final Invoice: Digitising the Modern Professional Practice September 7, 2026 Pinpea Review: The Best Pinterest Downloader and Its Alternatives September 7, 2026