Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12631 Case Name Oswal Cables Pvt. Ltd. Vs Commissioner of Central Excise and Customs (CESTAT Delhi) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All CESTAT Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Oswal Cables Pvt. Ltd. Vs Commissioner of Central Excise and Customs (CESTAT Delhi) Summary: M/s. Oswal Cables Private Limited, engaged in manufacture of power cables and other electrical products and in providing various taxable services, had availed exemption under Works Contract Service by deducting 60% abatement from taxable value received during April 2011 to March 2016. The Department alleged that the appellant had wrongly claimed the Works Contract Service abatement because no transfer of property in goods was involved in execution of the relevant contract. It further alleged that the value of goods supplied free of cost by the service recipient had not been included in the taxable value, resulting in alleged short payment of service tax of Rs.32,55,453/-. Suppression with intent to evade service tax was also alleged. The appellant had entered into two separate work orders with M/s. Power Grid Corporation of India Limited (PGCIL): one for supply of equipment and material manufactured by the appellant and another for inland transportation, insurance, unloading, handling, storage at site, erection, testing and commissioning of equipment and material for Rural Electrification works in Nagaur District of Rajasthan under RGGVY. The appellant contended that the second contract involved both material and labour and therefore constituted Works Contract Service. It relied upon payment of works contract tax under the Rajasthan VAT Act, the deduction certificate issued by Ajmer Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited, and discharge of service tax under the Works Contract (Composition Scheme for Payment of Service Tax) Rules, 2007. Paid content Become a Basic or Premium Member, or log in if you are already a Basic or Premium member. Become a Member Already a member? Log in Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Cestat judgments Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,664 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi No Proven Dominance or Market Foreclosure: CCI Closes Case Against Vygon India September 8, 2026 CAAR Mumbai Disallows Roasted Areca Nut Advance Ruling Under Section 28-I(2)(b) September 8, 2026 Next IAS UPSC Success Claims Misleading for Hiding Course Details: CCPA September 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Service Tax CESTAT Holds Municipal Hoarding Space Taxable, But Quashes Extended-Period Service Tax Demand September 6, 2026 CESTAT Allows CENVAT Refund Where Credit Was Not Challenged Under Rule 14 September 6, 2026 CESTAT Hyderabad Sets Aside Tax on Pharma Regulatory Approval Support Services September 6, 2026 STPI’s SOFTEX Certification Charges Taxable as Business Support Service: CESTAT Hyderabad September 6, 2026 SVLDRS Discharge Certificate Bars Revenue Appeal on Same Dispute: CESTAT Hyderabad September 6, 2026 Time Share Accommodation Not Taxable as Club or Association Service: CESTAT Hyderabad September 6, 2026