Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14499 Case Name Rahul Goyal Vs Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) (Delhi High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Delhi High Court Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Rahul Goyal Vs Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) (Delhi High Court) Summary: Delhi High Court dismissed the customs appeal filed by Rahul Goyal challenging the CESTAT order dated 22 December 2023 concerning confiscation of gold. The principal issue raised before CESTAT, and forming the basis of the challenge before the High Court, was whether gold would fall within the category of “prohibited goods”. The Division Bench comprising Justice Yashwant Varma and Justice Ravinder Dudeja noted that the question had already been conclusively settled against the assessee by the Delhi High Court judgment in Nidhi Kapoor vs. Principal Commissioner and Additional Secretary to the Government of India & Ors. [2023 SCC OnLine Del 5099]. In view of that binding precedent, the High Court found no ground to interfere with CESTAT’s order. The appeal consequently failed and was dismissed. Cases Discussed Nidhi Kapoor vs. Principal Commissioner and Additional Secretary to the Government of India & Ors. [2023 SCC OnLine Del 5099] (Delhi High Court) — The Court treated the issue whether gold would fall within the category of “prohibited goods” as conclusively settled against the assessee by this judgment. FULL TEXT OF THE DELHI HIGH COURT ORDER The appellant seeks to impugn the order of the Customs Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal [”CESTAT”] dated 22 December 2023. The grievance essentially is in respect of confiscation of gold. As we go through the order impugned, we find that the principal question which was urged for the consideration of the CSETAT was that gold would not fall in the category of ―prohibited goods‖. That issue stands conclusively settled and answered against the assessee in light of the judgment rendered in Nidhi Kapoor vs. Principal Commissioner and Additional Secretary to the Government of India & Ors. [2023 SCC OnLine Del 5099]. We, consequently, find no ground to interfere with the order of the CESTAT. The appeal fails and shall stand dismissed. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under high court judgments Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,845 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Section 112 Penalty Unsustainable Without Corroborative Evidence: CESTAT Kolkata October 2, 2026 Partners Can Face Cheque Dishonour Complaint Without Firm Initially Arraigned: SC October 2, 2026 Portuguese Civil Code Cannot Divide Registered Share Voting Rights for Section 2(22)(e): Bombay HC October 2, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty Acceptance of Enhanced Customs Value Does Not Bar Importer From Challenging Reassessment: CESTAT Delhi October 2, 2026 Coerced Consent Cannot Justify Enhancement of Customs Transaction Value: CESTAT Chandigarh October 2, 2026 Consent to Enhanced Customs Value Cannot Waive Statutory Valuation Safeguards: CESTAT Allahabad October 2, 2026 Import Permit Mandatory for Insecticides Imported for Non-Insecticidal Use: CBIC October 2, 2026 Notification No. 80/2026-Customs (N.T.) – Revised Customs Tariff Values from 1 October 2026 October 1, 2026 No MRP-Based CVD on Disinfectants Supplied to Government Hospitals: CESTAT Kolkata October 1, 2026