Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Godrej Consumer Products Limited (GCPL), a prominent Indian multinational, has inaugurated a new manufacturing facility in the Kendal Special Economic Zone, Indonesia. This development represents a significant investment of IDR 500 billion (approximately INR 250 crore) aimed at enhancing the company’s manufacturing capabilities in the region. The facility, which marks the first phase of a larger project, spans 2.5 hectares of a 5.5-hectare site and is dedicated to the production of household insecticides. The inauguration ceremony was attended by notable figures, including the Ambassador of India to Indonesia, the Deputy Governor of Central Java, and representatives from Indonesia’s Ministry of Investment. This event underscores the importance of the facility in fostering economic ties between India and Indonesia. Since its entry into the Indonesian market in 2010, GCPL has seen its business grow 4.5 times, with its brands reaching approximately one in four Indonesian households. The new facility is designed with advanced technology and data integration to enhance operational efficiency and responsiveness to market demands. This strategic move is expected to increase GCPL’s production capacity in home and personal care categories by approximately 15%. The company aims to address current capacity utilisation rates of 75-80% and meet the rising regional demand, positioning itself for further growth and expansion in export markets. In addition to boosting manufacturing, the Kendal facility reflects GCPL’s commitment to inclusive and responsible growth. The company plans to incorporate diverse hiring practices, aiming for women to comprise 50% of the workforce, and to implement sustainable operational practices. This initiative aligns with GCPL’s broader strategy to integrate social responsibility into its business model, supporting local economic development while adhering to environmental sustainability standards. Analysts view this expansion as a positive step in strengthening GCPL’s foothold in Southeast Asia, contributing to its long-term growth strategy. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under NSE Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Sun Pharma establishes endowed professorship to advance dermatologic care October 6, 2026 Mphasis extends collaboration with Social Security Scotland in £35.4 million deal October 6, 2026 Lupin unveils world’s first fixed-dose triple combination drug for COPD in India October 6, 2026 Glenmark Therapeutics launches new pump packs for Adapalene Gel USP, 0.1% in the USA October 6, 2026 IREDA signs performance MoU with MNRE for fiscal year 2026-27 October 5, 2026 Zydus and MSN launch first generic of Adempas® in the US market October 5, 2026