GSTN Enables Filing of Appeals Against “NIL” or “Zero” Demand Orders: A Welcome Relief for Taxpayers Summary: GSTN, through its Advisory dated 7 September 2026, has removed the GST Portal validation that previously prevented taxpayers from filing appeals in Form GST APL-01 against demand orders reflecting a “NIL” or “Zero” demand. The issue generally arose where a taxpayer had paid tax, interest or penalty at the Show Cause Notice stage without admitting liability, and the adjudicating authority subsequently treated the payment as discharge of the proposed demand, resulting in a zero-value entry in the Demand and Collection Register. Although Section 107 of the CGST Act, 2017 confers a statutory right of appeal on an aggrieved person, the portal earlier blocked such appeals with an error stating that the disputed amount could not be more than the demand amount itself. GSTN had addressed the difficulty earlier through its Advisory dated 3 April 2026, which required taxpayers to seek a rectification order before filing the appeal. The latest advisory removes that procedural hurdle and permits taxpayers to file Form GST APL-01 directly against NIL or Zero demand orders. The change provides faster access to the appellate remedy, reduces practical limitation concerns arising from delays in rectification and enables taxpayers to pursue matters previously held back because of the portal restriction. Taxpayers and professionals should review such matters, retain payment and “under protest” records where applicable, and file appeals within the prescribed limitation period. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Snapshot of the Advisory How does a “NIL” or “Zero” demand arise? Why did the portal block the appeal? The legal position: payment is not admission The earlier advisory (Advisory dated 3 April 2026) Earlier position vs. present position Practical implications for taxpayers and professionals Step-by-step: filing the appeal now Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) My order shows NIL demand. Can I still appeal? I paid at the SCN stage. Does that mean I have accepted the demand? Do I still need a rectification order before filing the appeal? The portal still shows an error. What should I do? Key takeaway Conclusion Show all 16 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction The Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN), vide Advisory dated 7 September 2026, has addressed a long-standing procedural hurdle that had left several genuinely aggrieved taxpayers without an effective remedy of appeal. Where a demand order reflected the demand as “NIL” or “Zero” — typically because the taxpayer had already paid the amount before the order was passed — the GST portal would not permit the filing of an appeal in Form GST APL-01. That system-level restriction has now been removed. Snapshot of the Advisory Advisory GSTN Advisory dated 7 September 2026 read with Advisory dated 03.04.2026 Issued by Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN) Subject Filing of appeals against demand orders reflecting a NIL / Zero demand Relevant form Form GST APL-01 Governing provision Section 107 of the CGST Act, 2017 Effect Portal validation blocking such appeals removed; taxpayers may now file the appeal directly. How does a “NIL” or “Zero” demand arise? A dispute often begins with a Show Cause Notice (SCN). In many cases, a taxpayer chooses to deposit the tax, interest or penalty proposed in the SCN — not because the taxpayer accepts the liability, but as a matter of caution (for instance, to stop the Additional interest or to demonstrate bona fides), while fully intending to contest the matter. When the adjudicating authority subsequently passes the order, it treats the amount already paid as a discharge of the proposed demand. Consequently, the final demand reflected in the order is recorded as “NIL” or “Zero”, and a corresponding zero-value entry is created in the Demand and Collection Register (DCR) on the portal. Why did the portal block the appeal? Section 107 of the CGST Act, 2017 confers on any person aggrieved by an order a statutory right to appeal to the Appellate Authority. However, when the taxpayer attempted to file Form GST APL-01 against an order carrying a NIL demand, the portal returned an error to the effect that the “disputed amount cannot be more than the demand amount itself.” Because the system read the demand as zero, it assumed there was no outstanding liability to contest and therefore blocked the filing altogether. The net result was that a taxpayer with a genuine grievance was denied the appellate remedy — not by any provision of law, but purely on account of a technical constraint on the portal. For the statutory appellate mechanism, see Appeals & Revision under GST. The legal position: payment is not admission An important principle underpins this entire issue. A payment made at the SCN stage, without an explicit admission of liability, does not amount to acceptance of the demand. The taxpayer therefore retains the full right to contest the liability and to prefer an appeal under Section 107. The right of appeal is a substantive right and cannot be extinguished merely because the amount stands paid or because the order, as a matter of arithmetic, reflects a NIL figure. The earlier advisory (Advisory dated 3 April 2026) GSTN had first acknowledged this difficulty in the Advisory dated 3 April 2026. While reaffirming the legal position noted above, it offered an interim workaround rather than a system fix. Taxpayers were advised to approach the adjudicating authority, file a rectification application, and obtain a rectification order so that the correct demand was reflected — only then could the appeal be filed. Though legally sound, the route was cumbersome and time-consuming, and relief depended on the officer acting before the limitation period expired. See GSTN Clarifies Appeal Rights Due to Incorrect NIL Demand in Adjudication Orders. Earlier position vs. present position The change brought about by the Advisory dated 7 Sep 2026 is best seen in contrast with the earlier position: Particulars Earlier — Advisory dated 3 Apr 2026 Present — Advisory Dated 7 Sep 2026 Filing APL-01 against NIL / Zero order Blocked by the portal Permitted directly Portal response Error — “disputed amount cannot be more than demand amount itself” Appeal accepted Pre-condition to appeal Obtain a rectification order first None — file straight away Right of appeal (Sec. 107) Available in law, not usable on portal Available and usable Practical impact Delay; dependent on officer acting Immediate, self-service remedy Practical implications for taxpayers and professionals Faster access to remedy: aggrieved taxpayers can move straight to appeal, avoiding delays inherent in the rectification route. Limitation relief in practice: since the appeal need not wait for a rectified order, the risk of the limitation period lapsing while the correction is pending is reduced. Preserve the record: where payment was made under protest, retain the challan and any covering communication stating that the payment was without admission of liability. Review closed matters: orders previously held back only because the portal would not accept the appeal may now be pursued, subject to the applicable limitation. Step-by-step: filing the appeal now 1. Identify orders where payment was made at the SCN stage and the demand is reflected as NIL / Zero. 2. Prepare the grounds of appeal, keeping the payment challan and “under protest” record ready as supporting documents. 3. File Form GST APL-01 on the GST portal within the limitation period prescribed under Section 107 (ordinarily three months from communication of the order, with a further condonable period of one month). 4. If any error persists, raise a ticket with the GST Helpdesk quoting the order details. For further reference on the procedure, see How to File Appeal under GST Act – Process and FAQs. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) My order shows NIL demand. Can I still appeal? Yes. Following the Advisory dated 7 September 2026, the portal now permits filing of Form GST APL-01 against orders reflecting a NIL or Zero demand. I paid at the SCN stage. Does that mean I have accepted the demand? No. Payment made without an explicit admission of liability does not amount to acceptance of the demand, and your right to appeal under Section 107 remains intact. Do I still need a rectification order before filing the appeal? No. The earlier interim requirement of obtaining a rectification order is no longer necessary; you may file the appeal directly. The portal still shows an error. What should I do? Raise a ticket with the GST Helpdesk, providing the relevant order and demand details, so that the issue can be examined. Key takeaway Key takeaway: A NIL demand is not a bar to appeal. GSTN Advisory dated 07 September 2026 removes the portal restriction, allowing taxpayers to file Form GST APL-01 directly against NIL or Zero demand orders — restoring, in practice, the statutory right of appeal under Section 107 of the CGST Act, 2017. Conclusion The move is a welcome, taxpayer-friendly correction. By aligning the portal’s functionality with the substantive right of appeal, GSTN has ensured that a genuine dispute is decided on its merits rather than being shut out by a technical validation. Taxpayers and practitioners holding back appeals on this ground should now review such matters and file promptly, keeping the limitation period firmly in view. Disclaimer: The views expressed are for general information and awareness only and do not constitute professional or legal advice. Readers are advised to refer to the original advisory on gst.gov.in and to seek specific professional advice before acting. References: GSTN Advisory dated 07.09.2026 and GSTN Advisory dated 03.04.2026. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: CA MEET JADAWALA Qualification: CA in Practice Company: JADAWALA & SHAH Location: Ahmedabad, Gujarat Articles Published: 10 View full profile → More from CA MEET JADAWALA No E-Way Bill on an Internal Stock Transfer? No Section 129 Penalty Either September 7, 2026 Ship-to GSTIN Mandatory from 1st August 2026 July 3, 2026 E-Way Bill Portal: Two Important Changes You Must Know May 28, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Jharkhand High Court grants interim stay on GST proceedings against dead person September 8, 2026 GSTAT Kolkata Remands ITC Interest and Penalty Computation Under Section 128A September 8, 2026 GSTAT Quashes Section 129 Penalty Where E-Way Bill Reuse Was Not Proved September 8, 2026 Rule 37A GST: Critical ITC Reversal Rule Businesses Must Know to Avoid Costly Interest September 8, 2026 Penalty Cannot Exceed SCN Amount under Section 75(7) UPGST Act: Allahabad HC September 8, 2026 Karnataka HC Directs Reimbursement of GST Differential to Contractor September 8, 2026