Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12584 Case Name Jaswant Singh @ Rolly Babu Vs Union of India (Patna High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Patna High Court Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Jaswant Singh @ Rolly Babu Vs Union of India (Patna High Court) Summary: The Patna High Court considered the regular bail application of Shri Jaswant Singh @ Rolly Babu in connection with Complaint Case No. 49 of 2026, arising from allegations under Section 132(1)(a), (b), (c) and (d) of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. The petitioner was arrested following summons/interrogation in a CGST complaint concerning alleged tax evasion and fraudulent transactions. The prosecution alleged that the petitioner issued tax invoices to multiple beneficiary firms without actual physical movement or supply of goods, fraudulently availed input tax credit without actual receipt of goods or services and without corresponding e-way bills, falsified accounts and financial records, and abetted and operated shell entities by controlling GST credentials, banking operations, passwords and compliance activities. The alleged revenue implication was approximately Rs. 73.75 crores. The petitioner denied the allegations and contended that his arrest was based merely on suspicion and without the requisite “reason to believe”. He argued that the allegations principally rested upon statements of proprietors of other firms and co-accused persons, without giving him an opportunity for cross-examination. He also submitted that the allegation concerning control of GST credentials was incorrect, that no incriminating material, notebook or diary was found during the search of his residence, and that the filing of returns and other forms had been handled by his accountant. According to the petitioner, investigation of the relevant IP address would be necessary before attributing responsibility for electronic filings. Reliance was placed on Section 69 of the CGST Act, 2017, under which the Commissioner must have reasons to believe that the person has committed specified offences under Section 132 before authorising arrest. The petitioner argued that the arrest authorisation and arrest memo did not disclose the requisite reason to believe or the monetary threshold relevant to the alleged offence. He also relied upon Section 132 of the CGST Act, 2017 concerning offences and punishment. The petitioner relied upon Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar and Anr. and reproduced the Supreme Court’s directions requiring arrest to be preceded by consideration of necessity and appropriate reasons and requiring Magistrates to scrutinise the basis for detention. Reliance was also placed on Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr., including the principles concerning arrest under Section 35 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023. The petitioner further relied upon State of Punjab v. Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar, Radhika Agarwal v. Union of India, Andaman Timber Industries v. CCE, Shri Mukesh Agarwal v. UOI and Sanket Mittal v. Central GST Department. He emphasised that the investigation had been completed and the charge sheet filed, that there was no possibility of tampering with evidence, and that he had remained in judicial custody since 26.05.2026. The Union of India opposed bail, submitting that the matter involved an economic offence which should be dealt with sternly. It referred to the punishment prescribed under Section 132 for wrongly availed or utilised input tax credit or refund exceeding the statutory thresholds, submitting that where the amount exceeded Rs. 5 crores, the punishment could extend to five years. Having heard the parties and considered the facts and circumstances, the Patna High Court was inclined to enlarge the petitioner on bail. The Court directed his release in Complaint Case No. 49 of 2026 upon furnishing a bail bond of Rs.10,000/- with two sureties of the like amount each to the satisfaction of the learned Special Judge, Economic Offence, Patna/Concerned Court, Patna. The order therefore resulted in grant of regular bail to the petitioner; it did not finally adjudicate the allegations concerning fake invoices, fraudulent input tax credit, falsification of records or operation of shell entities. Cases Discussed Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar & Another, (2014) 8 SCC 273. Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation & Another, (2022) 10 SCC 51; M.A. No. 2034 of 2022 in M.A. No. 1849 of 2021 in SLP (Crl.) No. 5191 of 2021. State of Punjab v. Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar & Others, (2011) 14 SCC 770. Radhika Agarwal v. Union of India & Others, 2025 INSC 247; W.P. (Crl.) No. 336 of 2018. Andaman Timber Industries v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Kolkata-II, (2015) 324 ELT 641 (SC); Civil Appeal No. 4228 of 2006, decided on 02.09.2015. Shri Mukesh Agarwal v. Union of India & Others, Bail Application No. 3440 of 2025, decided on 24.10.2025 (Gauhati High Court). Sanket Mittal v. Central GST Department, CRM-M-44925 of 2025, decided on 18.12.2025 (Punjab & Haryana High Court); 2025 SCC OnLine P&H 24133. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF PATNA HIGH COURT Heard Mr. D.V. Pathy, the learned Senior learned counsel for the petitioner and Mr. Amit Pandey, the learned Senior Standing Counsel for the Union of India. 2. The petitioner has prayed for regular bail in a case registered for the offence punishable under sections 132(1) of the Central Goods and Service Tax Act (CGST), 2017 under Clause (a) or Clause (b) or Clause (c) or Clause (d) of the Said Section. 3. The case of the prosecution in short is that the petitioner has committed an offence specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) of Sub-Section (1) of Section 132 of the CGST Act 2017 which is punishable under clause (i), or (ii) of Sub-Section (1), or sub-Section (2) of the said Section. 4. On the basis of summon the or interrogation, the petitioner was arrested for the offence under the above sections for evasion of taxes in the complaint case filed by the CGST. It includes the allegation against the petitioner regarding issuance of invoices without the actual supply of goods under section 132 (1) (b), of the CGST Act, fraudulent availment of input tax credit under section 132 sub-clause (i) sub-clause (c), falsification of accounts and financial record under section 132 sub-clause (i) sub-clause (f), and abetment and operation of shell entities under section 132 sub-clause 1 (i). 5. The petitioner supplied the tax invoices to multiple beneficiaries firms without any actual physical movement or supply of goods, fraudulently availed input tax credit without actual receipt of goods or services, and without any corresponding e-way bills for this supply to the petitioner. 6. It is alleged that the petitioner engaged in falsification of accounts and financial records without any supporting evidence required for trading in commodities such as cement and machinery and also abetted and operated shell entities regarding controlling of GST credentials, banking operations, passwords, and compliance activities of shell entities. There is revenue implication involved in the fraud approximately to the tune of Rs. 73.75 crores. 7. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the petitioner is innocent and has committed no offence. He has falsely been implicated in this case. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that from the bare perusal of the complaint case and the arrest memo, it is clear that the petitioner was arrested only on the basis of suspicion and without any reason to believe as there is no evasion of taxes by the petitioner and the statements of other persons without cross examination of the same. There has been only one allegation made against the petitioner on the basis of statement of proprietor of other firms and statement of co-accused in this case. 8. The allegation regarding issuance of invoices without actual supply of goods or services is not correct because this allegation needs proper investigation. It is the specific case of the petitioner regarding abetment and operation of shell entities that the petitioner has never controlled any password or GST credentials of other firms and also made the statement before the prosecution during the recording of statement that he never controlled the GST credentials of the other firms. 9. The allegation of the prosecution is only on the basis of the statements of proprietors of the other firms on the basis of which the petitioner was summoned and needed a cross examination before leveling the allegation against the petitioner, but the opportunity of cross examination was not provided to the petitioner. 10. It has further been submitted that the allegation regarding controlling of GST credentials for the firm is not correct as during the search at the residence of the petitioner no incriminating material was found and also no notebook or diary was found at the residence of the petitioner. 11. It is the story of the prosecution regarding abetment and operation of other firms because before such an allegation seizure of some document is required which substantiate the allegation of the prosecution. The statement of proprietors of other firms is not enough to make an allegation against the petitioner. 12. It is submitted that the allegation regarding banking transaction between the petitioner and other individuals as an illicit network is completely misleading and without investigation. It has further been submitted that after the registration of the firm of the petitioner, the filing of the returns and other forms was made by the accountant and that the accountant is responsible for that purpose. The petitioner was not well conversant with the filing procedure and the accountant is responsible for all misdeeds by the firms. The prosecution needs investigation of IP address of that electronic device from which the return was filed during that period and without any such evidence, the leveling of allegation against the petitioner is not as per law and also against criminal jurisprudence. 13. Learned counsel for the petitioner has further submitted that after reading of section 69 of Central GST Act 2017, there must be a reason to believe that a person has committed an offence which is as under:- 69. Power to arrest. (1)Where the Commissioner has reasons to believe that a person has committed any offence specified in clause (a) or clause (b) or clause (c) or clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 132 which is punishable under clause (i) or (ii) of sub-section (1), or sub-section (2) of the said section, he may, by order, authorise any officer of central tax to arrest such person. (2) Where a person is arrested under sub-section (1) for an offence specified under subsection (5) of section 132, the officer authorised to arrest the person shall inform such person of the grounds of arrest and produce him before a Magistrate within twenty-four hours. (3) Subject to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973,– (a) where a person is arrested under sub-section (1) for any offence specified under sub-section (4) of section 132, he shall be admitted to bail or in default of bail, forwarded to the custody of the Magistrate; (b) in the case of a non-cognizable and bailable offence, the Deputy Commissioner or the Assistant Commissioner shall, for the purpose of releasing an arrested person on bail or otherwise, have the same powers and be subject to the same provisions as an officer-in-charge of a police station. 14. After reading of section 132 of CGST Act 2017 which is as follows:- (1) Whoever commits any of the following offences, namely:- (a) supplies any goods or services or both without issue of any invoice, in violation of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder, with the intention to evade tax; (b) issues any invoice or bill without supply of goods or services or both in violation of the provisions of this Act, or the rules made thereunder leading to wrongful availment or utilisation of input tax credit or refund of tax; (c) avails input tax credit using such invoice or bill referred to in clause (b); (d) collects any amount as tax but fails to pay the same to the Government beyond a period of three months from the date on which such payment becomes due; (e) evades tax, fraudulently avails input tax credit or fraudulently obtains refund and where such offence is not covered under clauses (a) to (d); (f) falsifies or substitutes financial records or produces fake accounts or documents or furnishes any false information with an intention to evade payment of tax due under this Act; (g) obstructs or prevents any officer in the discharge of his duties under this Act; (h) acquires possession of, or in any way concerns himself in transporting, removing, depositing, keeping, concealing, supplying, or purchasing or in any other manner deals with, any goods which he knows or has reasons to believe are liable to confiscation under this Act or the rules made thereunder; (i) receives or is in any way concerned with the supply of, or in any other manner deals with any supply of services which he knows or has reasons to believe are in contravention of any provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder; (j) tampers with or destroys any material evidence or documents; (k) fails to supply any information which he is required to supply under this Act or the rules made thereunder or (unless with a reasonable belief, the burden of proving which shall be upon him, that the information supplied by him is true) supplies false information; or (l) attempts to commit, or abets the commission of any of the offences mentioned in clauses (a) to (k) of this section, shall be punishable- (i) in cases where the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund wrongly taken exceeds five hundred lakh rupees, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years and with fine; (ii) in cases where the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund wrongly taken exceeds two hundred lakh rupees but does not exceed five hundred lakh rupees, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and with fine;( (iii) in the case of any other offence where the amount of tax evaded or the amount of input tax credit wrongly availed or utilised or the amount of refund wrongly taken exceeds one hundred lakh rupees but does not exceed two hundred lakh rupees, with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year and with fine; (iv) in cases where he commits or abets the commission of an offence specified in clause (f) or clause (g) or clause (j), he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine or with both. 15. From a conjoint reading of sections 69 and 132 of the CGST Act, 2017, it is clear that there must be a reason to believe of tax evasion or the conditions specified in Section 132 for the arrest of such a person under the act and such reason to believe was not mentioned in the authorization of arrest and arrest memo. 16. The petitioner further submits that the monetary limit which is specified in section 132 regarding period of conviction as per amount of tax evasion but has not been specified in the arrest memo. It means that the arrest of petitioner is merely on the basis of suspicion and there is nothing concrete in this case. 17. Learned counsel for the petitioner has relied various judgments of the Hon’ble Apex Court. Firstly, he has referred para ‘11’ of Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar and Anr. and the same is being reproduced hereunder:- 11. Our endeavour in this judgment is to ensure that police officers do not arrest accused unnecessarily and Magistrate do not authorise detention casually and mechanically. In order to ensure what we have observed above, we give the following direction: 11.1. All the State Governments to instruct its police officers not to automatically arrest when a case under Section 498-A of the IPC is registered but to satisfy themselves about the necessity for arrest under the parameters laid down above flowing from Section 41, Cr. PC; 11.2. All police officers be provided with a check list containing specified sub- clauses under Section 41(1)(b)(ii); 11.3. The police officer shall forward the check list duly filed and furnish the reasons and materials which necessitated the arrest, while forwarding/producing the accused before the Magistrate for further detention; 11.4. The Magistrate while authorising detention of the accused shall peruse the report furnished by the police officer in terms aforesaid and only after recording its satisfaction, the Magistrate will authorise detention; 11.5. The decision not to arrest an accused, be forwarded to the Magistrate within two weeks from the date of the institution of the case with a copy to the Magistrate which may be extended by the Superintendent of police of the district for the reasons to be recorded in writing; 11.6. Notice of appearance in terms of Section 41A of Cr.PC be served on the accused within two weeks from the date of institution of the case, which may be extended by the Superintendent of Police of the District for the reasons to be recorded in writing; 11.7. Failure to comply with the directions aforesaid shall apart from rendering the police officers concerned liable for departmental action, they shall also be liable to be punished for contempt of court to be instituted before High Court having territorial jurisdiction. 11.8. Authorising detention without recording reasons as aforesaid by the judicial Magistrate concerned shall be liable for departmental action by the appropriate High Court. 18. Learned counsel for the petitioner has further relied on the judgment of Hon’ble Apex Court in paragraph ‘17’ in the case of Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Anr. wherein the Hon’ble Apex Court has taken a similar view as in the case of Arnesh Kumar (Supra) the same is being reproduced hereunder:- 17. An arrest, being an act done by a police officer in furtherance of an investigation, is discretionary and optional to be applied on the facts of a particular case. Section 35 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 provides for situations where a person may be arrested by a police officer, without a warrant. Section of the BNSS, 2023 “35. When police may arrest without warrant.— (1) Any police officer may without an order from a Magistrate and without a warrant, arrest any person— (a) who commits, in the presence of a police officer, a cognizable offence; or (b) against whom a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists that he has committed a cognizable offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may be less than seven years or which may extend to seven years whether with or without fine, if the following conditions are satisfied, namely:— (i) the police officer has reason to believe on the basis of such complaint, information, or suspicion that such person has committed the said offence; (ii) the police officer is satisfied that such arrest is necessary— (a) to prevent such person from committing any further offence; or (b) for proper investigation of the offence; or (c) to prevent such person from causing the evidence of the offence to disappear or tampering with such evidence in any manner; or (d) to prevent such person from making any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the Court or to the police officer; or (e) as unless such person is arrested, his presence in the Court whenever required cannot be ensured, and the police officer shall record while making such arrest, his reasons in writing: Provided that a police officer shall, in all cases where the arrest of a person is not required under the provisions of this sub-section, record the reasons in writing for not making the arrest; or (c) against whom credible information has been received that he has committed a cognizable offence punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to more than seven years whether with or without fine or with death sentence and the police officer has reason to believe on the basis of that information that such person has committed the said offence; or (d) who has been proclaimed as an offender either under this Sanhita or by order of the State Government; or (e) in whose possession anything is found which may reasonably be suspected to be stolen property and who may reasonably be suspected of having committed an offence with reference to such thing; or (f) who obstructs a police officer while in the execution of his duty, or who has escaped, or attempts to escape, from lawful custody; or (g) who is reasonably suspected of being a deserter from any of the Armed Forces of the Union; or (h) who has been concerned in, or against whom a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists, of his having been concerned in, any act committed at any place out of India which, if committed in India, would have been punishable as an offence, and for which he is, under any law relating to extradition, or otherwise, liable to be apprehended or detained in custody in India; or (i) who, being a released convict, commits a breach of any rule made under sub-section (5) of Section 394; or (j) for whose arrest any requisition, whether written or oral, has been received from another police officer, provided that the requisition specifies the person to be arrested and the offence or other cause for which the arrest is to be made and it appears therefrom that the person might lawfully be arrested without a warrant by the officer who issued the requisition. (2) Subject to the provisions of Section 39, no person concerned in a non- cognizable offence or against whom a complaint has been made or credible information has been received or reasonable suspicion exists of his having so concerned, shall be arrested except under a warrant or order of a Magistrate. (3) The police officer shall, in all cases where the arrest of a person is not required under sub-section (1) issue a notice directing the person against whom a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists that he has committed a cognizable offence, to appear before him or at such other place as may be specified in the notice. (4) Where such a notice is issued to any person, it shall be the duty of that person to comply with the terms of the notice. (5) Where such person complies and continues to comply with the notice, he shall not be arrested in respect of the offence referred to in the notice unless, for reasons to be recorded, the police officer is of the opinion that he ought to be arrested. (6) Where such person, at any time, fails to comply with the terms of the notice or is unwilling to identify himself, the police officer may, subject to such orders as may have been passed by a competent Court in this behalf, arrest him for the offence mentioned in the notice. (7) No arrest shall be made without prior permission of an officer not below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police in case of an offence which is punishable for imprisonment of less than three years and such person is infirm or is above sixty years of age.” (emphasis supplied) 19. Learned counsel for the petitioner has also relied on some judgments of Hon’ble Apex Court as well as Hon’ble High Courts which are as follows:- (i) State of Punjab v. Davinder Pal Singh Bhullar (2011) 14 SCC 770. (ii) Radhika Agarwal v. Union of India WP (Cri) No. 336 of 2018 (SC). (iii) Andaman Timber Industries v. CCE MA No. 2034 of 2022. (iv) Shri Mukesh Agarwal v. UOI Bail Application No. 3440/2025 (Gauhati). (v) Sanket Mittal v. Central GST Department CRM-M- 44925 of 2025 ( P & H ). 20. Learned counsel for the petitioner has submitted that in this case, the charge sheet has been filed and keeping the petitioner behind the bars after the completion of investigation, will not serve any purpose and there is no any chance of tampering evidence. Moreover, the petitioner is languishing in judicial custody since 26.05.2026. 21. Countering this, learned Senior Counsel for the Union of India has vehemently opposed the bail and has submitted that this is an economic offense which shatters the economy and that it should be dealt with stern hands. Section 132 sub-clause (1) (ii) provides with an imprisonment for a term which may extend up to three years and fine, where the wrongly availed or utilised or amount of refund wrongly taken exceeds two hundred lakh rupees ( 2 crores) but does not exceed five hundred lakhs rupees ( 5 crores) and in case the amount exceeds five hundred lakh rupees ( 5 crores ), the punishment may extend up to five years in view of Section 132 Sub-clause 1 (i) of the Act. 22. Having heard learned counsel for the parties and considering the facts and circumstances of the case, this court is inclined to enlarge the petitioner on bail. The above named petitioner is directed to be released on bail in connection with Complaint Case No. 49 of 2026 on furnishing bail bond of Rs.10,000/- (ten thousand) with two sureties of the like amount each to the satisfaction of learned Special Judge, Economic Offence, Patna/ Concern Court, Patna. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgmentsinput tax credit Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,659 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Bombay HC Upholds Deduction for Scientifically Estimated Major Repairs Provision September 7, 2026 GST Appeal Filed Before Section 107 Order Is Passed Not Maintainable: GSTAT Chennai September 7, 2026 Bombay HC Declines Interim Relief Over GST Recovery Citing Unjustified Delay September 7, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Appeal Filed Before Section 107 Order Is Passed Not Maintainable: GSTAT Chennai September 7, 2026 Bombay HC Declines Interim Relief Over GST Recovery Citing Unjustified Delay September 7, 2026 GSTAT Finds Nil Profiteering as Cost Escalation Offsets GST ITC Benefit September 7, 2026 GSTAT Upholds EGVs as Valid GST Benefit Transfer, Orders ₹10,241 Fund Deposit September 7, 2026 57th GST Council Meeting Rescheduled to October 7, 2026: Legal Analysis September 7, 2026 GST ITC on Immovable Property: Eligibility & Risks September 6, 2026