Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: Public Notice No. 125/2026 dated 6 September 2026 issued by the Export Commissionerate, Chennai Customs, provides for the exclusion of specified categories of import containers from the requirement of scanning as part of phased enhancement of container scanning at sea ports and further trade facilitation. The notice excludes empty containers manifested by Shipping Lines at the time of import and international transshipment containers carrying cargo that is not meant to be cleared in India. The exclusion is not absolute. Such containers may still be taken up for examination, including scanning, where specific intelligence is received from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) or field formations. The notice further states that containers falling within these categories which have been selected for scanning through the National Committee for Targeting Cargo (NCTC) shall also not be taken up for scanning in accordance with the instructions issued by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC). All concerned stakeholders, including importers, exporters, port terminal operators, shipping lines and agents, container freight stations and inland container depots, have been advised to take note of the instructions and ensure compliance. Any difficulty in implementation is to be brought to the notice of the undersigned. GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MINISTRY OF FINANCE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE Public Notices No. 125/2026 -Customs | 06-09-2026 Subject: Exclusion of certain categories of import containers from scanning – reg. ****** All the Importers, Exporters, General Trade, Port Terminal Operators, Shipping Lines/Shipping Agents, Container Freight Stations, Inland Container Depots and all other stakeholders concerned are hereby informed that, in the context of the ongoing phased enhancement of container scanning at sea ports and as a measure of further trade facilitation, it has been decided to exclude the following categories of containers from the requirement of scanning: i . Empty containers manifested by the Shipping Lines at the time of import; and ii. International transshipment containers carrying cargo which are not meant to be cleared in India. 2. However, the above categories of containers may be taken up for examination, including scanning, based on specific intelligence received from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) or the field formations, if any. 3. Accordingly, all concerned stakeholders are advised to take note of the above and ensure compliance. Containers falling under the above-mentioned categories, which have been selected for scanning through the National Committee for Targeting Cargo (NCTC), shall also not be taken up for scanning in accordance with the instructions issued by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC). 4. Any difficulty in the implementation of the above instructions may be brought to the notice of the undersigned. Digitally Signed by Dineshraj jayaraaj Dated: 06/09/2026 09:41:10 (DINESH RAJ J ) JOINT COMMISSIONER EXPORT COMMISSIONERATE To: 1. All Custodians/Port Terminal Operators under the jurisdiction of Chennai Customs Zone. 2. All Shipping Lines/Shipping Agents. 3. All Importers, Customs Brokers and Trade Associations. 4. All CFSs/ICDs concerned. Copy to: 1. The Chief Commissioner of Customs, Chennai Zone. 2. All Commissioners of Customs, Chennai Customs Zone. 3. Additional/Joint Commissioners concerned. 4. The Deputy/Assistant Commissioners of Customs concerned. 5. EDI Section – for uploading on the Chennai Customs Zone website. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Custom Duty Notifications Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty DRI Seizes Around 41 kg Foreign-Origin Gold Worth Rs. 62 Crore in Six Pan-India Operations; 24 Arrested September 12, 2026 Delhi HC Refuses Unconditional Release of Gold Chain Amid Customs Dispute & 938-Day Delay September 12, 2026 Bombay HC Orders Release of Roasted Areca Nuts Without Bank Guarantee September 12, 2026 Later Customs Amendment Cannot Govern Earlier Bill of Lading Imports: Madras HC September 12, 2026 Delayed Writ Against Appealable Gold Confiscation Order Dismissed: Delhi HC September 12, 2026 Address Change Non-Intimation Cannot Justify Customs Broker Licence Revocation: CESTAT Delhi September 12, 2026