Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/11 Date: January 27, 2023 The Company Secretary All Listed Companies Subject: Filing of announcements in XBRL format on NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS) platform. With reference to the captioned subject various circulars were issued by Exchange(s) for seeking comments/feedback from listed companies on XBRL format(s) for certain type of announcements. Facility for filings of disclosure for following announcements filed under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI LODR) will be available in XBRL format with effect from January 28, 2023: (‘effective date’):  Disclosure under Regulation 29 of SEBI LODR: - Prior Intimation of the Board Meeting.  Disclosure under Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR: - Change in directors, key managerial personnel (Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary etc.), Auditor, Compliance Officer and Share transfer agent; - Outcome of Board Meeting for Dividend, Buyback, Bonus Issue and decision on voluntary delisting by the listed entity; - Acquisition(s) (including agreement to acquire), Scheme of Arrangement (amalgamation/ merger/ demerger/restructuring), or sale or disposal of any unit(s), division(s) or subsidiary of the listed entity or any other restructuring. Currently, as a part of compliance all listed entities are required to submit the disclosures in PDF mode as per the provisions of Regulation 30 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations. Further, all listed entities would be required to submit the filings in XBRL mode within 24 hours of submission of the said PDF filing. At a later stage (date to be informed separately) Exchange will shift to only XBRL submission. contd... Please refer the below steps/path for submitting the announcements in XBRL format for the above- mentioned subjects: 1. Post logging in the NEAPS portal (https://neaps.nseindia.com/NEWLISTINGCORP) - go to COMPLIANCE >> Common XBRL Upload 2. On the Common XBRL Upload, please select Equity Announcement-XBRL from the drop down under Module: 3. On clicking the Equity Announcement- XBRL, the user shall then select the Subject of the Announcement from the drop down: contd... 4. On selection of the any given subject, the user can download the XBRL utility for the said subject from the table below (“Download Offline Excel Utilities) and fill-in the utility and generate the XML file. 5. Once the XML is generated from the utility, fill-in the required details on the portal and click on the Upload XBRL File and complete the submission. In case any queries concerning the captioned subject, please reach out to the Announcements team at takeover@nse.co.in or on the contact details given on NEAPS platform. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Dhaval Shah Manager – Listing