Summary: Trademark assignment and transmission are legal mechanisms for transferring ownership of trademarks in India. Assignment generally involves a voluntary written transfer by the existing proprietor to an assignee, while transmission occurs by operation of law, succession, inheritance or another mode that is not an assignment. The Trade Marks Act, 1999 permits registered and unregistered trademarks to be transferred with or without goodwill, subject to statutory restrictions. Registered trademarks may also be assigned for all or only some of the goods or services covered by the registration. Sections 40 and 41 restrict transfers that could create conflicting exclusive rights or territorial arrangements likely to cause confusion or operate contrary to public interest, while certification trademarks and associated trademarks are subject to special requirements. Assignments without goodwill require compliance with the advertisement procedure under Section 42. For a registered trademark, the subsequent proprietor should apply for recordal of title with the Trade Marks Registry through Form TM-P and provide the prescribed supporting documents. Proper drafting of the assignment deed, correct stamp duty, due diligence, timely filing and compliance with Registry requirements are important for protecting the transferee’s title. Cross-border transactions may additionally involve foreign-exchange, tax, corporate and stamp-duty considerations. Table of Contents▸ Introduction What is Trademark Assignment? What is Trademark Transmission? Difference Between Trademark Assignment and Transmission Legal Structure for Trademark Assignment in India Section 37 – Power of Registered Proprietor to Assign Section 38 – Assignment of Registered Trademarks Section 39 – Assignment of Unregistered Trademarks Types of Trademark Assignment Complete Assignment Partial Assignment Assignment With Goodwill Assignment Without Goodwill Restrictions on Trademark Assignment Restriction Where Multiple Exclusive Rights May Cause Confusion Territorial Restrictions Certification Trademarks Associated Trademarks Trademark Assignment Deed Stamp Duty on Trademark Assignment Deed Procedure for Trademark Assignment and Transmission Documents Generally Required for Trademark Assignment Examination by the Trade Marks Registry Why Recording the Assignment is Important Assignment Without Goodwill Requires Special Care Cross-Border Trademark Assignments Common Mistakes in Trademark Assignment Transactions Trademark Assignment vs Trademark Licensing Importance of Trademark Due Diligence Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions Q1. Can a registered trademark be assigned in India? Q2. Can an unregistered trademark be assigned? Q3. Which form is used for trademark assignment? Q4. What is the government fee for trademark assignment? Q5. Is a trademark assignment agreement required to be in writing? Q6. Can a trademark be assigned without goodwill? Q7. Can only some goods or services under a trademark registration be assigned? Q8. Can associated trademarks be separately assigned? Q9. Is Registrar approval required for assigning a certification trademark? Q10. How long does registration of a trademark assignment take? Show all 41 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction A trademark is an important intellectual property asset that helps a business protect its brand name, logo, symbol, tagline, or other distinctive identity. Like other business assets, trademark rights can also be transferred from one person or entity to another. Such transfer may take place through assignment, where the owner voluntarily transfers the trademark through a written agreement, or through transmission, where ownership passes by operation of law, succession, inheritance, restructuring, or similar legal circumstances. Trademark assignment and transmission are commonly involved in mergers, acquisitions, business sales, brand transfers, family succession, and corporate restructuring. However, transferring a trademark requires proper legal documentation and compliance with the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and Trade Marks Rules, 2017. In the case of a registered trademark, the new proprietor should also record the change with the Trade Marks Registry. This article explains the legal procedure, documents, restrictions, and key requirements involved in trademark assignment and transmission in India. What is Trademark Assignment? Section 2(1)(b) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 defines an assignment as an assignment in writing by an act of the parties concerned. In simple terms, an assignment is a voluntary transfer of ownership of a trademark from its existing owner to another person or entity. The existing trademark owner is generally called the assignor, while the person acquiring ownership is called the assignee. For example, suppose Company A owns the registered trademark “ALPHA” and sells the brand to Company B under a written trademark assignment agreement. Company A would be the assignor and Company B would become the assignee. An assignment may relate to the entire trademark portfolio or only particular trademarks. In the case of a registered trademark, Section 38 permits assignment or transmission with or without the goodwill of the business and in respect of all or only some of the goods or services for which the mark is registered. What is Trademark Transmission? Trademark transmission is different from a voluntary assignment. Section 2(1)(zc) of the Trade Marks Act defines transmission as transmission by operation of law, devolution on the personal representative of a deceased person, or any other mode of transfer that is not an assignment. Therefore, transmission usually occurs because of a legal event rather than a negotiated sale between two parties. For instance, if an individual trademark proprietor dies and ownership of the trademark passes to the legal representative or successor under applicable succession law, the change may amount to transmission. Similarly, ownership may pass pursuant to certain corporate restructuring, insolvency, succession or other legal proceedings depending upon the circumstances and the relevant legal instrument. Difference Between Trademark Assignment and Transmission Basis Assignment Transmission Nature of transfer Voluntary transfer Transfer arising by operation of law or another non-assignment mode Requirement Agreement or instrument in writing Legal event or instrument establishing devolution of title Typical situation Sale of a brand or IP portfolio Death, succession or statutory/legal transfer Parties Assignor and assignee Previous owner and successor/transferee Consideration Usually present, though structure depends on transaction May occur without commercial consideration Registry action Change of proprietor should be recorded Successor’s title should be recorded Although their legal basis differs, both assignment and transmission may result in a new person becoming proprietor of the trademark. Legal Structure for Trademark Assignment in India Chapter V of the Trade Marks Act, 1999, particularly Sections 37 to 45, governs assignment and transmission of trademarks. Section 37 – Power of Registered Proprietor to Assign Section 37 provides that the person entered in the Register as proprietor of the trademark has the power, subject to the Act and any rights appearing in the Register, to assign the trademark and receive consideration for such assignment. This makes it important to verify the Registry record before undertaking a trademark acquisition. Section 38 – Assignment of Registered Trademarks Section 38 expressly provides that a registered trademark may be assigned or transmitted: with or without the goodwill of the business, and either for all goods or services or only some of the goods or services for which the trademark is registered. This permits substantial flexibility when businesses restructure their trademark portfolios. Section 39 – Assignment of Unregistered Trademarks The law is not limited to registered trademarks. Under Section 39, an unregistered trademark may also be assigned or transmitted with or without the goodwill of the business concerned. Documentation becomes particularly important in transactions involving unregistered marks because ownership and prior use may have to be established independently. Types of Trademark Assignment A trademark transaction can be structured differently depending upon the commercial arrangement. Complete Assignment A complete assignment occurs when the owner transfers the entire ownership interest in the trademark to the assignee for all the goods and services covered by the transferred rights. After completion, the assignor normally ceases to own the rights that have been fully assigned, subject to the terms of the agreement. For example, if a company owns a trademark registered for clothing, footwear and headgear and transfers the mark together with all its rights for those goods to another company, it would generally constitute a complete assignment. Partial Assignment Section 38 also permits a registered trademark to be assigned in respect of only some of the goods or services for which it is registered. Suppose a mark is registered for cosmetics and pharmaceutical preparations. Subject to the statutory restrictions, ownership relating to a defined part of the goods or services may be transferred while another part remains with the existing proprietor. However, partial assignments must be structured carefully because Sections 40 and 41 restrict arrangements that could create confusing or conflicting exclusive rights. Assignment With Goodwill A trademark assignment with goodwill involves transfer of the mark along with the business reputation and commercial connection associated with the relevant goods or services. For example, when an entire consumer brand business is sold along with its trademark, customer base, reputation and associated business assets, the trademark may be transferred together with goodwill. Goodwill can be commercially significant because consumers already associate the trademark with a particular source, reputation or level of quality. Assignment Without Goodwill An assignment without goodwill is sometimes called a gross assignment. In such a transaction, ownership of the trademark is transferred without transferring the goodwill of the business in which the mark has been used. Such transactions are subject to additional statutory requirements. Section 42 provides that where a trademark, whether registered or unregistered, is assigned otherwise than in connection with the goodwill of the relevant business, the assignment does not take effect unless the assignee applies to the Registrar for directions regarding advertisement within six months from the date of assignment. The Registrar may permit an extension not exceeding three months in aggregate. The assignee must then advertise the assignment in the form, manner and period directed by the Registrar. The request for such directions is made through Form TM-P under Rule 80 of the Trade Marks Rules, 2017. Restrictions on Trademark Assignment The law provides considerable freedom to transfer trademark rights, but this freedom is not unlimited. Restriction Where Multiple Exclusive Rights May Cause Confusion Section 40 restricts an assignment or transmission where it would result in different persons obtaining exclusive rights in identical or nearly resembling trademarks for the same, similar or associated goods or services in circumstances where use of those marks would be likely to deceive or cause confusion. A proprietor proposing such an assignment may submit a statement of case to the Registrar and seek a certificate regarding whether the proposed transaction would be invalid under Section 40. Where a favourable certificate is obtained under Section 40(2), the statutory protection attached to that certificate is subject to the requirement that the application for registration of the new proprietor under Section 45 be made within six months of the certificate. Territorial Restrictions Section 41 addresses situations in which the proposed transfer could create exclusive trademark rights in different persons for different geographical areas of India in a manner involving identical or nearly resembling marks and creating public-interest concerns. The Registrar may approve such an arrangement where satisfied that use of the respective rights would not be contrary to public interest. Where approval is granted, the conditions prescribed by Section 41, including the relevant six-month requirement for seeking registration under Section 45, must be considered. Certification Trademarks Certification trademarks receive special treatment. Under Section 43, a certification trademark cannot be assigned or transmitted without the consent of the Registrar. Rule 141(2) provides that an application seeking such consent must be filed in Form TM-P. Associated Trademarks Section 44 provides that associated trademarks can be assigned and transmitted only as a whole and not separately. Consequently, the trademark register should be examined carefully before entering into the assignment agreement to determine whether the mark is recorded as associated with any other trademark. Trademark Assignment Deed A properly drafted Trademark Assignment Deed is one of the most important documents in a voluntary trademark transfer. The agreement should clearly identify the rights being transferred so there is no ambiguity between the parties or before the Trade Marks Registry. Depending upon the transaction, the deed normally addresses the identity and details of the assignor and assignee, particulars and registration numbers of the trademarks, relevant classes, nature and scope of the assignment, effective date, consideration, treatment of goodwill, geographical scope, representations regarding ownership, pending disputes or encumbrances, transfer of related rights, further-assurance obligations and execution by the parties. Where only part of the goods or services is being assigned, the division of rights should be described precisely. The transaction documents should also make clear whether associated intellectual property such as copyrights in logos, domain names, designs, packaging or other brand assets is being transferred. Ownership of a trademark does not automatically answer every question concerning ownership of other intellectual property used with the brand. Stamp Duty on Trademark Assignment Deed A trademark assignment deed must also be examined from a stamp-duty perspective. Rule 78 of the Trade Marks Rules specifically provides that if the Registrar considers an instrument produced as proof of title to be improperly or insufficiently stamped, the Registrar shall impound and deal with it in accordance with the applicable provisions concerning stamped instruments. The exact stamp-duty treatment can depend on the applicable stamp law, the State or Union Territory concerned, the nature of the instrument, consideration and other transactional circumstances. Therefore, the correct stamp duty should be determined before filing rather than assuming that one uniform amount applies throughout India. Procedure for Trademark Assignment and Transmission For a registered trademark, the transfer should be recorded with the Trade Marks Registry so that the Register reflects the new proprietor. Rule 75 prescribes Form TM-P for registering the title of a person who becomes entitled to a registered trademark through assignment or transmission. The practical procedure generally involves the following steps: Verify the trademark portfolio.Conduct due diligence on the relevant registration numbers, classes, registered proprietor, status, associated marks, pending proceedings, licences, registered users and possible encumbrances. The scope of the assignment should match the Registry records and the commercial agreement. Determine the nature of the transfer.Establish whether the transaction is an assignment or transmission and whether it is complete or partial, with goodwill or without goodwill. Also determine whether Sections 40, 41, 42, 43 or 44 create any additional requirement. Execute the appropriate instrument.In an assignment, the parties should execute a written trademark assignment deed or other appropriate transfer instrument. For transmission, the applicant should obtain the legal documents that establish devolution of title. Ensure appropriate stamping.The transfer instrument should be properly stamped under the law applicable to the particular transaction. An insufficiently stamped document can create objections and may be impounded by the Registrar under Rule 78. Prepare Form TM-P and supporting documents.Rule 76 requires the applicant seeking registration of title to submit Form TM-P along with a duly certified copy of the original document, instrument or deed purporting to transfer title and a statement of case supporting the request. Complete additional procedures where required.An assignment without goodwill requires compliance with the advertisement procedure under Section 42 and Rule 80. Transactions falling within Sections 40 or 41 may require a certificate or approval of the Registrar. Certification trademarks require the Registrar’s consent. File the application with the Trade Marks Registry.Form TM-P is filed together with the applicable government fee and supporting documents. According to the current IP India fee schedule, an application under Section 45 to register a subsequent proprietor in the case of assignment or transfer carries an official fee of ₹9,000 through e-filing or ₹10,000 through physical filing for each trademark. Different TM-P requests, such as seeking a certificate under Section 40, approval under Section 41 or directions under Section 42, have separate prescribed fees. Respond to Registry queries, if any.Under Section 45 and Rule 77, the Registrar may seek further evidence where there is reasonable doubt regarding the authenticity or correctness of the documents or statements establishing title. Registration of the new proprietor.Once the Registrar is satisfied and the assignment is allowed, the new proprietor’s details are entered in the Register. Rule 84 provides for recording information including the assignee’s name and address, date of assignment, description of the rights assigned where applicable, basis of assignment and date of entry in the Register. Documents Generally Required for Trademark Assignment Although the precise requirements depend on the transaction, the principal documentation normally includes the executed and properly stamped assignment deed or transfer instrument, certified copy of the document establishing title, details of the trademark registrations, statement of case, particulars of the assignor and assignee, applicable authorisation where the filing is made through an agent, and additional supporting documents requested by the Registrar. For transmission resulting from death, succession, corporate restructuring or another legal event, appropriate succession documents, orders, corporate documents or other evidence establishing the new owner’s title may also be required. Where the transaction falls within Section 42, proof of compliance with the Registrar’s advertisement directions must also be maintained and submitted as required under Rule 81. Examination by the Trade Marks Registry Filing Form TM-P does not necessarily mean that the change will be recorded automatically. The Registry examines whether the applicant has satisfactorily established title and whether the transaction complies with the Act and Rules. Where reasonable doubt exists about any statement or document, further proof may be requested. Section 45 also provides that where the validity of an assignment or transmission is disputed between the parties, the Registrar may refuse to register it until the parties’ rights have been determined by a competent court. Rule 76 states that an application under Rule 75 should ordinarily be disposed of by the Registrar within three months from the date of application. Actual processing, however, may depend on deficiencies, objections, documentary issues or disputes arising in a particular case. Why Recording the Assignment is Important Recording the change of proprietorship is much more than an administrative formality. The amended Section 45 provides that until the prescribed application for registration of the assignment or transmission has been filed, the assignment or transmission is ineffective against a person who acquires a conflicting interest in or under the registered trademark without knowledge of the earlier assignment or transmission. Prompt recordal also helps ensure that the public trademark register identifies the correct owner. This becomes important for renewals, licensing, commercial transactions, enforcement actions, due diligence, brand acquisitions and subsequent assignments. Assignment Without Goodwill Requires Special Care Transfers without goodwill deserve particular attention because Section 42 imposes a specific timetable. The assignee must apply to the Registrar for advertisement directions within six months of the assignment. The Registrar can permit an extension, but only up to an additional three months in aggregate. After receiving the directions, the assignee must advertise the assignment in the prescribed manner. Rule 81 further requires relevant information concerning the use of the trademark and whether the transaction occurred without goodwill. Proof that the Registrar’s advertising directions have been fulfilled may also be required before the assignment application proceeds. Missing these requirements can therefore create serious problems for the transaction. Cross-Border Trademark Assignments Indian trademarks are frequently transferred as part of international mergers, acquisitions or global intellectual property transactions. Rule 79 specifically addresses assignments involving transmission of money outside India. Where applicable law regulates such remittances, the Registrar is not to register the new proprietor unless any permission required from the competent authority under that law has been produced. Accordingly, cross-border assignments may need to be examined not only under trademark law but also under applicable foreign-exchange, tax, corporate and stamp-duty laws. Common Mistakes in Trademark Assignment Transactions One frequent mistake is preparing a general business-transfer agreement without precisely identifying the trademarks being transferred. Registration numbers, classes, jurisdictions and goods or services should be clearly mapped to the transaction. Another common issue arises where the agreement does not clearly state whether goodwill is transferred. This distinction matters because an assignment without goodwill triggers the separate procedure under Section 42. Businesses may also overlook associated trademarks, partial-assignment restrictions, certification-mark requirements, insufficient stamp duty or conflicting rights created by splitting the trademark portfolio. A further risk is delaying the application to update the Registry. Even though ordinary Section 45 recordal should be distinguished from the specific statutory six-month periods applicable to certain special situations, the transfer should generally be filed promptly so that the Register reflects the new proprietor and Section 45(4) issues are avoided. Trademark Assignment vs Trademark Licensing Trademark assignment should not be confused with trademark licensing. In an assignment, ownership of the relevant trademark rights is transferred to another person. In a licensing arrangement, ownership ordinarily remains with the proprietor while another person receives permission to use the trademark subject to contractual conditions. Therefore, businesses should first determine whether their commercial objective is to sell the trademark or merely permit another party to use it. An incorrectly structured transaction can create uncertainty regarding ownership, enforcement rights and future commercial use. Importance of Trademark Due Diligence Before acquiring a trademark, the assignee should undertake appropriate due diligence. The Registry status should be checked to confirm whether the mark is registered, valid and standing in the assignor’s name. Particular attention should also be paid to pending opposition, rectification, litigation, renewal requirements, registered-user entries, associated marks and any contractual restrictions affecting the asset. Where the trademark forms part of a wider brand acquisition, ownership of domains, copyrighted logos, packaging, designs, social-media assets and other intellectual property should also be separately verified. Proper due diligence can prevent a buyer from paying for a trademark that the seller does not fully own or cannot transfer in the manner contemplated. Conclusion Trademark assignment and transmission are important legal mechanisms through which ownership of a trademark can move from one person or business to another. While assignment generally takes place through a written agreement between the existing owner and the new owner, transmission may occur through succession, inheritance, restructuring, or operation of law. The Trade Marks Act, 1999 permits the transfer of both registered and unregistered trademarks, with or without goodwill, subject to applicable legal conditions and restrictions. For registered trademarks, the change in ownership should be properly recorded with the Trade Marks Registry through Form TM-P along with the required supporting documents. Proper drafting of the assignment deed, payment of applicable stamp duty, and timely compliance with legal procedures are essential to protect the rights of the new proprietor. Frequently Asked Questions Q1. Can a registered trademark be assigned in India? Ans. Yes. Section 38 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 expressly permits registered trademarks to be assigned or transmitted, either with or without goodwill and for all or some of the registered goods or services, subject to the restrictions contained in the Act. Q2. Can an unregistered trademark be assigned? Ans. Yes. Section 39 permits an unregistered trademark to be assigned or transmitted with or without the goodwill of the business concerned. Q3. Which form is used for trademark assignment? Ans. For registering the title of a person becoming proprietor of a registered trademark by assignment or transmission, the prescribed form under Rule 75 is Form TM-P. Q4. What is the government fee for trademark assignment? Ans. Under the current IP India fee schedule, an application under Section 45 to register a subsequent proprietor carries a fee of ₹9,000 through e-filing or ₹10,000 through physical filing for each trademark. Separate fees apply to certain other TM-P requests. Q5. Is a trademark assignment agreement required to be in writing? Ans. Yes. The statutory definition of “assignment” refers to an assignment in writing by act of the parties concerned. A properly executed written assignment instrument is therefore fundamental to a voluntary transfer. Q6. Can a trademark be assigned without goodwill? Ans. Yes, but special requirements apply. Under Section 42, the assignee must seek directions from the Registrar regarding advertisement within the statutory period and must advertise the assignment as directed. Q7. Can only some goods or services under a trademark registration be assigned? Ans. Yes. Section 38 permits assignment in respect of all or only some of the goods or services for which the trademark is registered. However, such partial transfers must comply with Sections 40 and 41 concerning potentially conflicting exclusive rights. Q8. Can associated trademarks be separately assigned? Ans. Generally, no. Under Section 44, trademarks registered as associated trademarks are assignable and transmissible only as a whole and not separately. Q9. Is Registrar approval required for assigning a certification trademark? Ans. Yes. Section 43 requires the consent of the Registrar for assignment or transmission of a certification trademark, and Rule 141 prescribes Form TM-P for seeking such consent. Q10. How long does registration of a trademark assignment take? Ans. Rule 76 states that the Registrar should ordinarily dispose of an application under Rule 75 within three months from the date of filing. The actual period may be longer where additional documents, clarification, stamping issues, objections or disputes arise. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under trademark Author Info Name: Compliance Calendar LLP Qualification: Graduate Company: Compliance Calendar LLP Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 75 View full profile → More from Compliance Calendar LLP Trademark Opposition in India: Step-by-Step Guide September 24, 2026 Trademark Objection Reply: Common Grounds, Procedure, Hearing and Outcomes September 22, 2026 Trademark Registration in India: Complete Process, Fees, Objections & Renewal Guide September 21, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Fixed-Tenure NHPC Employees Cannot Claim Amalgamation Absorption Benefits: Sikkim HC September 24, 2026 Election Commissioners Appointment Law Challenge Referred for Constitution Bench: SC September 24, 2026 TDS Withheld From Land Acquisition Compensation Must Be Released: Karnataka HC September 24, 2026 IRDAI Proposes Distribution Reforms to Cut Insurance Costs & Strengthen Policyholder Protection September 24, 2026 FSSAI Proposes Ban on Use of Paneer Name for Non-Milk Analogue Products September 24, 2026 Incomplete Information Memorandum and Unverified SEZ Approval Derail CIRP Plan: NCLAT September 24, 2026