Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13430 Case Name Caterpillar India Private Limited Vs DCIT (ITAT Chennai) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Related Assessment Year 2016-17 Courts All ITAT, ITAT Chennai Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Caterpillar India Private Limited Vs DCIT (ITAT Chennai) Summary: The Chennai Bench of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal disposed of cross appeals for AY 2016-17 filed by M/s. Caterpillar India Private Limited and the Revenue against the order of the CIT(A)-18, Chennai dated 07.03.2023. Caterpillar India, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar Commercial S.A., Belgium, carried on manufacturing and various service activities and had been assessed under sections 143(3) read with 144C after reference to the TPO under section 92CA. The assessee challenged transfer-pricing adjustments concerning idle-capacity/economic adjustments, treatment of provisions written back, miscellaneous receipts, business-support service income, comparable-company selection, filters and the marketing-support-services segment. The Tribunal followed earlier coordinate-bench orders and restored the idle-capacity issue to the TPO for fresh consideration on the basis of cost-audit reports, comparable data and agreements with AE and non-AE customers. The provision-write-back issue was treated as operating for transfer-pricing purposes and the matter was remitted to the AO to verify the evidence, amount and nature, while related miscellaneous-receipt grounds were allowed for statistical purposes. Business-support-service income issues were remitted with directions concerning exclusion of matching expenses. Comparable-company, filter and marketing-support-service issues were also restored to the TPO for re-examination after opportunity and production of relevant evidence. The assessee’s additional grounds on limitation, customs-duty adjustment, provision for obsolescence and AE/non-AE segmentation were dealt with separately. The limitation ground was dismissed as not pressed; the customs-duty issue was restored to the TPO in light of the coordinate-bench approach and Doowon Automotive Systems India Pvt. Ltd.; the opening-inventory adjustment for provision for obsolescence was restored to the AO for verification; and the AE/non-AE segmentation ground was allowed. In the Revenue’s appeal, the Tribunal dismissed the challenge to deletion of the foreign-exchange loss arising from restatement of the ECB loan, relying on the treatment of exchange differences and the distinction drawn under section 43A for imported versus domestically acquired assets. It also dismissed the Revenue’s challenge to 60% depreciation on software, following earlier decisions including Computer Age Management Services. On Secondment payments, the Tribunal noted deduction of tax under section 192 and followed earlier decisions in the assessee’s own case in rejecting the Revenue’s contention that section 195 applied to the salary reimbursements as fees for technical services. Ultimately, all grounds raised by the assessee were allowed for statistical purposes only, while the grounds raised by the Revenue were dismissed. The order therefore largely preserved the assessee’s relief on the Revenue’s substantive grounds while requiring fresh factual examination by the TPO/AO on the transfer-pricing and verification-dependent issues. The Tribunal repeatedly emphasised consistency and judicial discipline, relying on coordinate-bench treatment for earlier assessment years where the factual position was stated to be similar. The principal transfer-pricing controversy remained one of comparability, economic adjustments and the proper treatment of operating and non-operating items in the tested segments. On the customs-duty adjustment, the Tribunal did not finally quantify or grant the adjustment but required reconsideration in the light of the stated import-intensity difference and the precedent relied upon by the assessee. Similarly, the provision-for-obsolescence relief was confined to the limited question of corresponding opening-inventory adjustment after verification. On the AE/non-AE segmentation ground, the Tribunal accepted the additional ground after recording the assessee’s explanation concerning allocation of foreign-exchange loss and the material said to be available before the lower authorities. In relation to the ECB foreign-exchange loss, the Tribunal’s discussion distinguished the statutory treatment of exchange differences associated with imported assets from losses attributable to foreign-currency borrowings used for domestic assets, and it relied on the cited judicial authorities and the assessee’s consistent accounting treatment. For software depreciation, the Tribunal followed the coordinate-bench view that software application licences fell within the computer-software entry attracting 60% depreciation. On secondment reimbursements, the Tribunal relied on the earlier finding that the assessee had exercised control and supervision over the seconded employees and had deducted tax under section 192, leading it to reject the Revenue’s reliance on Centrica on the facts recorded in the assessee’s own earlier case. Cases Discussed CIT Vs Woodward Governor India P. Ltd. — Supreme Court Hyundai Motor India Limited Vs DCIT — ITAT Chennai Cooper Corporation (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT — ITAT Pune Doowon Automotive Systems India Pvt. Ltd. v. Asstt. CIT — ITAT Chennai CIT Vs Computer Age Management Services P. Ltd. — Madras High Court Centrica India Offshore Pvt. Ltd. Vs CIT — Delhi High Court FULL TEXT OF THE ORDER OF ITAT CHENNAI There is a Cross appeal by the assessee and the Revenue against the order of Ld. Commissioner of Income Tax (A)-18, Chennai, (hereinafter referred as the ‘Ld. CIT(A)’) dated 07.03.2023 for the Assessment Year (hereinafter referred as the ‘AY’) 2016-17. GROUDS OF APPEAL IT (TP) A No. 43/Chny/2023 1(a) The Order passed by the Learned (‘Ld.’) Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-18, (‘CIT(A)’) in pursuance of the grounds filed by the Appellant against order under section 143(3) r.w.s. 92CA of the Income-Tax Act, 1961 (‘the Act’), is bad in law and on facts. 1(b) The Ld. CIT (A)/AO has erred in law and on facts by failing to record an opinion that any of the conditions in section 92C (3) of the Act were satisfied and erroneously disregarded the TP study maintained by the Appellant as per section 92D of the Act read with rule 10D of the Income-tax Rules, 1962 (‘the Rules). On the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Ld. TPO and Ld. AO, under the directions issued by the Ld. CIT (A), erred in the following grounds: Manufacturing of Earthmoving Equipment Segment 2 Erroneous Rejection of Economic Adjustments Adjustment – INR 88, 68, 93,849/- Notional Tax Effect -INR 30, 69, 36,223/- 2(a) Erred in not allowing appropriate economic adjustments when applying Transactional Net Margin Method, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 10B (3) of the Rules, to eliminate the material differences between the Assessee and the comparable companies. 2(b) Erred in rejecting the claim for idle capacity adjustment, based on erroneous assumption that idle capacity adjustment should be provided only at the starting phase of operations, without appreciating the peculiar business reasons and global economic parameters influencing the business of the Appellant for the year under consideration and the material placed on record to substantiate the claim for capacity underutilization and the need for such adjustment. 2(c) Erred in rejecting the claim of idle capacity adjustment stating that the Appellant had not followed the approach adopted in previous years, of comparing the Appellant’s capacity utilization in the year under consideration with its own average capacity utilization of past years. Erred in not appreciating the fact that the capacity of the past years of the Appellant is under-utilized and that the Appellant had also claimed an idle capacity adjustment for those past years. 2(d) Erred in rejecting the claim of idle capacity adjustment on the ground that there is lack of clarity as to why the appellant had operated on a lower capacity as compared to the average industry capacity utilization, without understanding the rationale for claiming such economic adjustment. Erred in not appreciating the fact that the very basis for claiming the idle capacity adjustment is to eliminate the disparity in capacity utilization of comparable companies in the industry. 2(e) Erred in law and on facts in arbitrarily rejecting the appellant’s request to obtain the capacity utilization data from the comparable companies by virtue of powers vested with the TPO under section 133(6) of the Act as upheld by various Tribunals. 3 Provision no longer required written back 3(a) Erred in law and on facts in treating provision no longer required written back as a non-operating item by assuming that the same relates to excise duty, without appreciating the fact that the provisions pertain to obligations connected with the composite maintenance and repairing services. Erred in law and on facts in not appreciating that the provisions were considered as an operating expense in the assessment years when they were created. 3(b) Erred in considering the reversal of these provisions as non-operating which would inter alia construe as double adjustment, when the Appellant had already disallowed the provisions in the year they were created and had paid taxes on the same. 4 Miscellaneous Receipts 4(a) Erred in considering the miscellaneous receipts under other income as non-operating on the ground that the Appellant has not provided the segmental break-up, without appreciating the fact that the entire miscellaneous receipts pertain only to the manufacture of earthmoving equipment segment, which was clearly demonstrated as part of the submissions and hearings before the CIT(A). 4(b) Erred in law and on facts in disregarding the principle of consistency when the facts of A.Y. 2016-17 are similar to the facts for A.Y. 2014-15, wherein the TPO has considered the other income as operating in nature. 5 Business Support Service Income 5(a) Erred in law and on facts in treating business support service income of INR 44,69,75,894/- as a non-operating item, disregarding the detailed break-up provided by the Appellant substantiating the fact that the same is inextricably linked to the manufacturing function of the Appellant 5(b) Erred in law and on facts in passing a non-speaking order by not considering the alternate plea of the Appellant to exclude the corresponding costs incurred in relation to the provision of the business support services. Manufacturing of Diesel Engine Segment 6 Business Support Service Income 6(a) The Ld. CIT(A) erred in confirming the observations of Ld. TPO/AO wherein the TPO/ AO erred in law and on facts in treating business support service income of INR 105,051,478/- as a non-operating item, without appreciating the fact that the same is inextricably linked to the manufacturing functions of the Appellant. 6(b) without prejudice, the Ld. CIT (A) erred in not considering the claim of the Appellant to exclude the corresponding costs incurred in relation to the provision of business support services. Adjustment -INR 8, 73, 12,318/- Notional Tax Effect -INR 3, 02, 17,047/- 7 Economic Adjustments. 7(a) Erred in not allowing appropriate economic adjustments when applying Transactional Net Margin Method, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 10B (3) of the Rules, to eliminate the material differences between the Assessee and the comparable companies. 7(b) Erred in rejecting the claim for idle capacity adjustment, based on erroneous assumption that idle capacity adjustment should be provided only in the starting phase of operations without appreciating the peculiar business reasons and global economic parameters influencing the business of the Appellant for the year under consideration and the material placed on record to substantiate the claim for capacity underutilization and the need for such adjustment. 7(c) Erred in rejecting the claim of idle capacity adjustment stating that the Appellant had not followed the approach adopted in previous years, of comparing the Appellant’s capacity utilization in the year under consideration with its own average capacity utilization of past years. Erred in not appreciating the fact that the capacity of the past years of the Appellant is under-utilized and that the Appellant had also claimed an idle capacity adjustment for those past years. 7(d) Erred in rejecting the claim of idle capacity adjustment on the ground that there is lack of clarity as to why the appellant had operated on a lower capacity as compared to the average industry capacity utilization, without understanding the rationale for claiming such economic adjustment. Erred in not appreciating the fact that the very basis for claiming the idle capacity adjustment is to eliminate the disparity in capacity utilization of comparable companies in the industry. 7(e) Erred in law and on facts in arbitrarily rejecting the appellant’s request to obtain the capacity utilization data from the comparable companies by virtue of powers vested with the TPO under section 133(6) of the Act thereby disregarding the findings of the various Tribunals. Software Development Services Segment 8 Rejection/ selection of Comparable Companies by the Ld. TPO/ 8(a) Erred in rejecting the comparable companies selected in the Transfer Pricing Study & arbitrarily cherry-picking companies with high net margins as comparables, without considering the functional and risk analysis of the Appellant. 8(b) Erred in law and on facts in rejecting Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd. as comparable stating that the company is functionally dissimilar without understanding the functional profile of the Appellant and the Comparable. 8(c) Erred in law and on facts in selecting the following companies as comparable to the Appellant despite not being comparable due to various factors such as functional comparability, non-contemporaneous data, peculiar economic circumstance, product /intangible led revenues, research & development activities, etc. i. Tata Elxsi Ltd. ii. Cadsys (India) Ltd. iii. Thirdware Solutions Ltd. iv. Cigniti Technologies Ltd. v. Infobeans Technologies Ltd vi. Puresoftware Pvt. Ltd. vii. Gwynniebee India Private Ltd. viii. Adjustment- INR 38, 04,216/- , Notional Tax Effect -INR 13, 16,563/- Asia Pacific Shared Services Segment Erroneous rejection/selection of Comparable Companies by the Ld. TPO/AO 9(a) Erred in law and on facts in applying arbitrary filters without appreciating the fact that the comparability standards as provided in Rule 10B (2) does not have any mention of application of below mentioned filters: Export Filter of 75% Employee Cost filter of 50% Erred in law and on facts by not appreciating that for transfer pricing economic analysis, the comparability has to be established based on the functionality irrespective of the level of exports or employee costs. 9(b) Erred in law and on facts in rejecting Informed Technologies Ltd. as comparable stating that the company is functionally dissimilar without understanding the functional profile of the Appellant. 9(c) Erred in law and on facts in arbitrarily rejecting the following comparable companies stating that their export revenue was less than 75 percent of sales: i. Allsec Technologies Ltd ii. BNR Udyog Ltd iii. Cosmic Global Pvt Ltd iv. Jeevan Scientific Technology Ltd v. Jindal Intellicom Ltd. 9(d) Erred in law and on facts in selecting the following companies as comparable to the Appellant despite not being comparable due to various factors such as functional comparability, non-contemporaneous data, peculiar economic circumstance, product/intangible led revenues, research & development activities, etc. 1. Datamatics Business Solutions Ltd. Marketing Support Services Segment 10 Non-appreciation of business model and erroneous adjustment proposed, Erroneous rejection of TP study maintained by the Appellant and inappropriate computation of arm’s length price of the transaction 10(a) erred on facts in not appreciating the business model of the Appellant and erroneously recharacterized the appellant as a commission agent when in fact it was only a Marketing Support Service provider and thereby computing an adhoc adjustment based on his own conjectures and surmises. 10(b) Erred in passing a non-speaking order, confirming the adjustment proposed by the TPO by placing reliance merely on the survey report and the observations of the TPO, without considering the detailed submissions filed by the Appellant clearly explaining the roles & responsibilities of the Appellant and the dealers in relation to the sales made by AEs in India. 10(c) failed to take cognizance of the fact that the cost-plus markup pricing methodology under TNMM adopted by the Appellant were accepted by the TPO in the prior assessment years. The Ld. CIT (A)/ AΟΙ ΤΡΟ has failed to uphold principles of consistency and has sought to make an adjustment to the Marketing and Support Services segment when the facts and circumstances of the Appellant remained the same. 10(d) Erred in misunderstanding the information received from dealers in response to notice u/s 133(6) of the Act and wrongly inferred that the Appellant paid commission on sales made to dealers without appreciating the fact that the Appellant only pays commission on goods sold directly to end customers, not to dealers 10(e) Erred in attributing commission to Parts sales made by the AEs in India, without appreciating the fact that the Appellant / AEs does not pay any commission in respect of parts sales. Adjustment -INR 11, 63, 03, 363/- Notional Tax Effect -INR 4, 02, 50,268/- Prayer The Appellant prays that directions be given to grant all such relief arising from the above grounds and also all relief consequential thereto. The Appellant craves leave to add, alter, amend and/or withdraw any of the above grounds of appeal and to submit such statements, documents and papers as may be considered necessary either at or before the hearing of this appeal as per law. In addition to the above, the assessee has taken an additional ground also vide its letter as under: i) Assessment Order passed by the Ld. AO is bad in law. On the facts and circumstances of the case and in the law, the Ld. AO erred in not passing the final assessment order within the time limit prescribed under section 153 of the Act which is the outer time limit for passing the final assessment order and hence, the assessment proceedings are time-barred and liable to be quashed. ii) Non-Cenvatable Custom Duty Adjustment in the EMS Segment On the facts and circumstances of the case and in the law, the Ld. TPO out to have provided the adjustment for higher non-Cenvatable customs duty paid by the appellant amounting to INR 56, 54, 58, 767/- on imports in the manufacturing of Earthmoving equipment segment, in the light of the decision of the coordinate bench of Chennai Tribunal in appellant’s own case for A.Y. 2014-15 (ITA No.717/Chny/2023). iii) Allowance for provision of obsolescence disallowed in prior years amounting to INR 21, 49, 87,990/-. 3.1.1. The Ld. Assessing Officer (‘Ld.AO’) has erred in not re-computing the opening stock of inventory on the basis of disallowance of provision for obsolescence of inventory made in the prior years which is in line with the decision of the coordinate bench of Chennai Tribunal in Company’s own case for A.Y. 2014-15 (ITA No.717/Chny/2023). iv) Transfer Pricing Adjustment – Rejection of AE and Non-AE Segmentation – The Appellant wishes to submit that the ground relating to segmentation relating to AE and Non-AE under the earth moving equipment business has been raised before the lower authorities and were duly adjudicated by the TPO (Page 56 of TPO Order). However, the appellant has inadvertently missed to include the ground while filing the subject appeal before the Hon’ble Tribunal. Hence, the appellant wishes to raise the above ground before Your Honors to determine the legal principle surrounding the issue and further submits that the basic facts pertaining to the additional ground of appeal raised before Your Honors are already on record..” ITA-718/Chny/2023 GROUDS OF APPEAL 1. The order of the Id. Commissioner of I.T. (Appeals) is erroneous on facts of the case and in law. 2 The learned CIT (A) erred in deleting the addition of Rs. 51, 44, 53,718/-, made on account of disallowance of foreign exchange fluctuation loss under the head finance cost and failed to appreciate the fact that since the ECB loan was taken by the assessee for acquisition of indigenous assets, the notional foreign exchange fluctuation loss incurred for capital purposes is not allowable, as it is not revenue in nature. 2.1 The learned CIT (A) erred in deleting the disallowance of notional loss arising out of foreign exchange loss on restatement of External Commercial borrowings, without appreciating the fact that the day to day profits of the assessee loss fluctuation on restatement of are not affected due to exchange External Commercial borrowing, and the same shall have effect only at the time of settlement of the borrowings, and therefore the notional loses incurred for capital purposes are not allowable as a deduction. 3 The learned CIT (A) ought to have appreciated the fact that the assessee had only acquired a license to use the software, and further classified the same as “Intangible asset” in the books of the assessee, as such the depreciation rates as applicable to “licenses” as stated in Part B of New Appendix-1 of the IT Rules, which is 25% shall only be applicable to such acquisition of license. 3.1. The learned CIT (A) erred in allowing the depreciation on software license at the rate of 60% as applicable to computers, without appreciating the fact that the software license is an intangible asset, and the applicable depreciation on such intangible asset is only 25%, as per Part B of New Appendix-1 of Income tax Rules. 4 The learned CIT(A) erred in directing the Assessing Officer to delete the addition made towards u/s. 40(a)(i) of the IT Act amounting to 37,33,05,030/- after verification of the tax deducted at source u/s. 192 of the IT Act on the salary payments and reimbursements in respect of the seconded employees, without appreciating the fact that reimbursement of secondment charges paid to the AE’s shall attract TDS as per the provisions of 195 of the IT Act, as “fees for technical services” 4.1 The learned CIT(A) erred in directing the Assessing Officer to delete the addition made towards u/s. 40(a)(i) of the IT Act after verification of tax deducted at source u/s.192 of the IT Act, without appreciating the fact that the disallowance made was on account of non-deduction of TDS u/s. 195 of the IT Act on foreign reimbursements on secondment expenses of the seconded employees to the AEs and not on the issue of non-deduction of TDS u/s. 192 of the IT Act. 4.2 The learned CIT (A) ought to have appreciated the fact that the employees seconded to the assessee company had performed technical and managerial services in India, as such the reimbursements effected to the foreign AE’s would partake the character of ” fees for technical services” on which tax is liable to be withheld as per the provisions of section 195 r.w.s 9(1) (vii) of the IT Act and the relevant DTAAs. 5. For these grounds and any other ground including amendment of grounds that may be raised during the course of the appeal proceedings, the order of Id. CIT(A) may be set aside and that of the Assessing Officer be restored. 2. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee – Caterpillar India Private Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar Commercial S.A, Belgium which in turn is a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar Inc. The company is engaged in the activities of manufacture and sale of earthmoving equipment including excavators, bull dozers, dumpers and loaders and spares for the same, manufacture and sale of diesel engines and gen-sets, provision of engineering design and related services, provision of marketing support services, provision of software development services (IT) and provision of shared services / information technology enabled services (ITES) to AE located in the Asia Pacific Region. The assessee under consideration filed its return of income u/s. 139 of the Act and then filed revised return of income vide dated 21.01.2018 declaring total income at Rs. 81, 44, 26, 680/-. It is also pertinent to mention that there was a survey operation u/s. 133A of the Act on the premises of the assessee on 14.11.2018. As the assessee is involved in International Transactions and specific domestic transactions, a reference u/s. 92CA (1) of the Act was made to the TPO, Circle-1(1), Chennai. Based on the order u/s. 92CA (3) of the Act case of the assessee was assessed u/s. 143(3) r.w.s. 144C of the Act and following adjustments and disallowances were made to the return income as under: Descriptions Amount (Rs.) Income returned for A.Y. 2016-17 81,44,26,680/- ADD Transfer pricing adjustments 123,44,76,413/- ADD Disallowance of brought forward loss 11,34,32,066/- ADD Disallowance of Notional loss 51,44,53,718/- ADD Disallowance of expenditure claimed towards remittance of contributions received from employees 2,40,87,709/- ADD Disallowance of Stamp Duty Charges 10,18,900/- ADD Disallowance of excess depreciation claimed on Printers 1,00,878/- ADD Disallowance of excess depreciation claimed on software 1,00,73,807/- ADD Disallowance of Secondment payments to AEs 37,33,05,030/- Assessed income as per this order 308,53,75,200/- 4. The assessee being aggrieved with the above order preferred an appeal before the Ld. CIT (A), who in turn Partly Allowed the appeal of the assessee, hence, both the Revenue as well as the assessee is in appeal before us. For sake of convenience, we are taking the assessee’s appeal first for adjudication. We have gone through the order of the AO along with the order of the TPO, order of the Ld. CIT (A) and submissions of both the parties along with ground taken before us. 5. Ground nos. 1(a) and 1(b) are general in nature, hence no specific adjudication is required. Ground Nos. 2(a) to 2(e) pertains to adjustment on account of claim for idle capacity. On this issue the Coordinate Benches for the A.Y. 2014-15 and A.Y. 2015-16 discussed the fine points involved and restored the matter back to the file of the Transfer Pricing Officer (TPO) for reconsideration de-novo. As the facts of the year under consideration are similar to those of A.Y. 2014-15 and A.Y. 2015-16, following principle of consistency and judicial discipline, we are also respectfully following the decisions rendered by the Coordinate Benches in the earlier years, remit the issue to the file of the TPO for reconsideration based on the evidence and explanations of the assessee which confirms that this ground raised by the assessee, has in fact relevant even after almost four years of operations. The TPO is directed to examine the issue in the light of various factors like cost audit report, data of comparables in similar business, agreement between the assessee and its AE and Non-AE customers. The assessee is directed to come forward with a substantial explanation along with corroborative evidence to substantiate its claim, as a substantial time period has already been crossed and the claim of the assessee depends crucially on time factor. In view of the above, ground nos. 2(a) to 2(e) raised by the assessee are allowed for statistical purposes only. 6. Ground nos. 3(a) and 3(b) pertains to provisions no longer required, written back. This issue also discussed by the Coordinate Benches in their earlier orders in A.Y. 2007-08 and A.Y. 2015-16. It is brought to our notice that on this issue the claim of the assessee was rejected on a presumption that it pertains to reversal of provision relates to excise duty and the assessee also not able to produce any evidence in favour of its claim. It is observed the provision no longer required, written back pertains to excess provisions created in earlier years towards obligations arising from ICS maintenance and repair contracts and return of parts provisions, based on prudent estimates and accounting standards. The corresponding provisions were disallowed and offered to tax in the years of creation. Therefore, treating the write-back as non-operating would result in double adjustment, as the amounts have already suffered tax in earlier years. Though the provisions were disallowed in the year of creation, the same was considered as operating expense for Transfer pricing purposes. 7. We are in agreement with the contentions of the assessee that in the year of creation, the provisions under consideration were treated as operating expense, hence in the year of reversal also same treatment is to be given. We confirm the stand of the assessee in treating the same as operating expense and also hold that the same is not liable for tax as already disallowed in the earlier year and considered for tax purposes. Although the nature of the provision is yet to be ascertained with relevant evidence, so for limited purpose we set aside the matter back to the file of the AO and direct the AO to verify the evidences filed by the assessee to crystalise the amount and nature. The assessee is also directed to follow the direction of the Bench and come forward with relevant ledger reconciliation and evidence to crystalise the amount and nature. In view of the above observations and directions, ground nos. 3(a) & 3(b) are allowed after fulfilment of directions and consequently grounds are also allowed for statistical purposes only. 8. On ground nos. 4(a) & 4(b) as the facts are similar to what we have discussed, observed and directed in para 6 & 7 (supra), directions will apply mutatis mutandis here also. In view of this, ground nos. 4(a) & 4(b) are allowed for statistical purposes only. 9. On ground nos. 5(a) & 5(b) relating to business support service income, a coordinate bench in A.Y. 2015-16, in assessee’s own case treated the same as non-operating income, consequently, the matching expenses are also to be excluded for the purposes of comparison. We have gone through the relevant orders on this issue and respectfully follow the order of the Coordinate Bench’s in A.Y. 2015-16. In view of the above, matter is set aside to the file of the TPO with direction to exclude the relevant expenses after giving a proper opportunity of being heard to the assessee and the assessee is directed to come forward with relevant details required by the TPO. In view of this, ground nos. 5(a) & 5(b) are allowed for statistical purposes only. 10. As the issue raised in ground nos. 6(a) & 6(b) is concerned, are similar to what we have discussed and adjudicated in para 9 (supra), our directions will apply mutatis mutandis here also. In view of this, ground nos. 6(a) & 6(b) are allowed for statistical purposes only. 11. Ground nos. 7(a) to 7(e) are nothing but the duplication of ground nos. 2(a) to 2(e), already discussed and decided (supra) vide para 5, hence the same need not be adjudicated again, hence our findings w.r.t. ground nos. 2(a) to 2(e) will apply mutatis mutandis for ground nos. 7(a) to 7(e) also. In view of this, ground nos. 7(a) to 7(e) are allowed for statistical purposes only. 12. As far as ground nos. 8(a) to 8(c), 9(a) to 9(b) and 10(a) to 10(e) are concerned, it is observed that the assessee has a common grievance in all the grounds that despite of availability of relevant information on record of the TPO, still were not considered appropriately, we found that the grounds raised by the assessee are relevant, hence the matter needs re-examination in the light of the grounds taken by the assessee, in view of the above, issues raised in ground nos. 8(a) to 8(c), 9(a) to 9(b) and 10(a) to 10(e) are restored back to the file of the TPO with direction to cope up with the grounds taken by the assessee after giving a proper opportunity of being heard and the assessee is directed to come forward with relevant evidence to substantiate its grounds, on which we are also relying. In view of this, ground nos. 8(a) to 8(c), 9(a) to 9(b) and 10(a) to 10(e) are allowed for statistical purposes only. 13. In the result, all the general grounds raised by the assessee are allowed for statistical purposes only. Now, we are taking up the additional grounds raised by the assessee in coming part of our order of even date. 14. Additional Ground No. 1 – Legal Ground (ROCA limitation issue): – Ground not pressed by the Appellant, hence the same is dismissed as not pressed. 15. Additional Ground No. 2, Custom Duty Adjustment. CIPL incurred substantial Customs duty on imports as compared to comparable companies selected in the notice that have largely indigenized the operations with majority of the raw materials procured locally. The appellant’s import-to-total-purchase ratio is 44%, whereas the comparables’ average is only 15.42%, demonstrating a significant difference in import intensity. In view of the above disparity, customs-duty adjustment ought to have been granted, as permitted in law and supported by judicial precedent. Further, the Coordinate Bench in appellant’s own for A.Y. 2014-15 (IT(TP)A No. 42/Chny/2023, Para 12) and for A.Y. 2015-16 (IT(TP)A No. 12/Chny/2024, Para 14), which was issued after the CIT(A) order was issued, has directed following the principle laid down in M/s. Doowon Automotive Systems India Pvt. Ltd. [IT(TP)A No. 7/Chny/2018], where such an adjustment was accepted. Hence, it is prayed by the assessee that this additional ground be admitted and coordinate bench’s order for A.Y. 2014-15 and A.Y. 2015-16 be followed. The relevant extract from the Coordinate Bench’s direction for A.Y. 2014-15 (para 12) is as under – “Since the primary issue is remitted to the file of the TPO, we also direct the TPO to examine the issue of necessity of granting custom duty adjustment in light of the principle laid down by the jurisdictional Tribunal in the case of Doowon Automotive Systems India Pvt Ltd [IT(TP)A.NO.7/Chny/2018.“ 16. In view of the above, we follow the decision of the Coordinate Bench in the case of the assessee for A.Y. 2014-15 and restore the matter back to the file of the TPO for reconsideration of the matter in the light of Doowon Automotive Systems India Pvt Ltd [IT(TP)A.NO.7/Chny/2018. The additional ground no. 2 raised by the assessee is allowed for statistical purposes only. 17. Additional Ground No. 3 – Alternate ground on provision for obsolescence. AO disallowed the provision for obsolescence. While Coordinate Bench for A.Y. 2015-16 had disallowed the provision for obsolescence. The Ld. CIT (A) allowed the provisions for obsolescence as allowable expense. Coordinate Bench for A.Y. 2015-16 order has, however allowed the alternate ground for adjusting the opening stock and closing stock on the basis that the provision is disallowed (IT(TP)A No.: 12/Chny/2024 (Para 44-45)). Hence, the Company alternatively seeks a corresponding adjustment to the opening inventory for A.Y. 2016-17. In view of the above, matter is restored back to the file of AO for limited purpose only i.e. allow corresponding adjustments to the opening inventory after verification. The additional ground no. 3 raised by the assessee is allowed for statistical purposes only. 18. Additional Ground No. 4 – AE and Non-AE segmentation. The Assessee was asked to substantiate the basis for allocation of significant forex gain to the AE segment. Since no satisfactory explanation was provided, the TPO regarded the allocation to AE as ad hoc and self-serving. Accordingly, the TPO held that the AE and non-AE segmental results could not be relied upon for benchmarking. Further, for export transactions of ₹ 292.78 crore, the assessee did not clarify the role of the AEs, including whether they actually took delivery of goods, performed resale functions, or merely acted as invoicing entities. Therefore, the TPO rejected the segmental results for benchmarking purposes. The TPO’s rejection of the AE and non-AE segmental results is solely based on the allegation that the allocation of foreign exchange gain to the AE segment was not substantiated. However, this observation is factually incorrect since the Appellant has incurred a net foreign exchange loss during the year and not a gain (unrealized net exchange loss of Rs. 6.31 Crs (Rs. 27.30 Crs net exchange loss (-) Rs 33.61 Crs realized exchange loss). The foreign exchange loss has been allocated between the AE and non-AE segments in proportion to gross sales, which is a reasonable and consistent allocation key. Moreover, the TPO’s observation is devoid of factual and economic basis, since allocation of a higher foreign exchange loss to the AE segment would only reduce the margin of the AE segment. Therefore, it cannot be alleged that such allocation has artificially improved or distorted the AE segment results. The observation that the Appellant failed to clarify the functional profile of the AE and non-AE segments is also factually incorrect. The Appellant had already submitted a detailed functional analysis of the AE and non-AE segments before the authorities below. For perusal of the bench, the collated relevant screenshots/extracts from the paper book submission pertaining to each of the pages referred to herein have been compiled and enclosed as Annexure 5. Likewise, the manner of sales to AEs was specifically explained at Pg. 1221, PB Vol. III. 19. Accordingly, the observation that the role of AEs or the manner of sales has not been clarified is contrary to the material available on record. Without prejudice, relying on the Coordinate Bench’s order in the Appellant’s own case for A.Y. 2015-16. The relevant extract from the Coordinate Bench’s ruling in Appellant’s own case for A.Y. 2015-16 (para 24) on this ground is as follows- “Since we have already remitted the main issue in relation to redetermination of margin of the Assessee in manufacturing segment, we feel that in the interest of justice and fair play that the allocation between the AE segment and the Non-AE segment could also be remitted back to the file of the TPO for re-examination. It is the bounden duty of the Assessee to clarify each and every point raised by the TPO as well as by the ld. CIT (A) and furnish necessary document to substantiate its stand in case, if the TPO is satisfied with the explanation provided by the assessee, the TPO may consider the Segmentation of AE and Non-AE and decide the issue in accordance with law.” 20. In view of the above, this additional ground raised by the assessee is allowed. ITA-718/Chny/2023 21. Ground 2, 2.1 – Foreign Exchange loss on account of restatement of ECB loan 22. As default rule, section 36(1) (iii) of the Act allows interest paid on capital borrowed as a revenue expenditure. The only limited exception to this is Proviso to section 36(1) (iii) of the Act. As per this, interest expense deduction is not granted till the capital asset is not ‘put to use’. After the capital asset is ‘put to use’, interest deduction is granted. This clearly suggests that deduction for interest paid for the period after the asset is put to use, even if the same pertains to capital asset. Likewise, foreign exchange loss in relation to fixed asset, incurred after the asset is put to use, is a revenue expenditure under section 37(1). As per Hon’ble Supreme Court judgment in the case of CIT Vs Woodward Governor India P Ltd (2009) 312 ITR 254, the foreign exchange loss suffered by an assessee is allowable as revenue expenditure under section 37(1) of the Act unless it is specifically prohibited by sections 30 to 36 of the Act – “..Therefore, in the instant case, the ‘loss’ suffered by the assessee on account of the exchange difference as on the date of the balance sheet was an item of expenditure under section 37(1). [Para 15]” 23. Notwithstanding the above, section 43A of the Act is a non-obstante clause. The provisions of section 43A of the Act provides only for treatment of exchange rate differences in respect of the amounts payable or loan borrowed where the assessee acquires assets from a country outside India. The section is reproduced below – “43A. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, where an assessee has acquired any asset in any previous year from a country outside India for the purposes of his business or profession and, in consequence of a change in the rate of exchange during any previous year after the acquisition of such asset, there is an increase or reduction in the liability of the assessee as expressed in Indian currency (as compared to the liability existing at the time of acquisition of the asset) at the time of making payment…” 24. From the above section, while section 43A of the Act overrides section 36(1) (ii) of the Act, it is only to the extent of foreign exchange difference in respect of imported assets (assets acquired from a country outside India). However, in respect of the capital assets acquired domestically/indigenously out of the ECB proceeds, the provisions of section 43A of the Act are not applicable, as the exchange differences arise on translation/repayment of a foreign currency loan attributable to the acquisition of domestic capital assets. The Company submits that the rationale for availing ECBs was to reduce the incurrence of interest costs. Therefore, the resultant foreign exchange fluctuation loss arises from the borrowing transaction and not from the acquisition of the capital assets. Given the same, the consequent foreign exchange fluctuation loss assumes the character of revenue expenditure and shall be a deductible expenditure. 25. Further to the above, the Chennai Tribunal ruling in the case of Hyundai Motor India Limited v. DCIT [2017] 81 taxmann.com 5 (see page 220-222 of CIT (A) order) wherein it was held that foreign exchange losses recognized in accordance with AS-11 represent accrued and ascertained liabilities and are allowable as revenue expenditure, notwithstanding that the underlying borrowings were utilized for acquisition of capital assets. In the context of applicability of section 43A of the Act to only imported assets (and not domestic procured assets), the Chennai ITAT followed the Pune ITAT judgment in Cooper Corporation (P.) Ltd. v. Dy. CIT [2016] 69 taxmann.com 244/159 ITD 165 (Pune – Trib.) which held as follows – “A bare reading of the aforesaid provision of Section 43A, which opens with a non-obstante and overriding clause, would show that it comes into play only when the assets are acquired from a country outside India and does not apply to acquisition of indigenous assets. (Para 10.4)” 26. Further, obtaining of loan and the subsequent utilization of the loan are independent transactions and ought to be evaluated separately. The exchange fluctuation arises due to variation in the foreign currency liability and not due to any change in the value or cost of the underlying fixed assets. In the absence of any specific provision mandating capitalization of such losses in respect of domestic assets, the tax treatment of the exchange fluctuation should be determined with reference to the borrowing transaction itself and not based on the end use of the funds. The Company submits that the impugned foreign exchange fluctuation loss is neither capital nor personal in nature and has been incurred wholly and exclusively for the purposes of its business. As the Act does not contain any specific provision requiring capitalization of such loss in relation to domestic assets, the same qualifies for deduction under the residuary provisions of section 37(1) of the Act. 27. The Company consistently followed the practice of recognizing foreign exchange gains and losses arising on restatement of ECBs through the profit and loss account. While exchange gains arising in earlier years have been offered to tax and accepted by the Revenue, a contrary treatment cannot be adopted for exchange losses arising from the same transactions. Accordingly, applying the settled principle of consistency, the foreign exchange fluctuation loss ought to be allowed as a deductible expenditure. Accordingly, the forex loss on restatement of ECB is to be allowed as revenue expenditure and not disallowed either under section 36 or 43A of the Act. 28. In this regard, in Appellant’s own case for AY 2014-15 (IT(TP)A No. 42/Chny/2023 – para 22), the Coordinate Bench restored the matter to the file of the Assessing Officer with a direction to verify whether the relevant assets were acquired domestically and had been put to use. The Coordinate Bench further directed the AO to adjudicate the issue in accordance with the ratio laid down by the jurisdictional Coordinate Bench in the case of Hyundai Motor India (Supra). The relevant extract of the Coordinate Bench’s order is reproduced below: “Respectfully following the same, we remit this issue to the file of the AO for fresh adjudication for bringing on record the facts such as the whether the assets were purchased in India and it has already been put to use and then decide this issue in light of the ratio laid down by jurisdictional Tribunal in the case of Hyundai Motor India Ltd Vs DCIT [2017] 81 taxmann.com 5. Hence, the corresponding ground is allowed for statistical purposes.” 29. Hence, Department’s ground on this issue is dismissed, as the issue in earlier year was set-aside for fresh adjudication and there is nothing on record, which negates the contentions of the assessee or any factual deviation. 30. Ground 3 – Disallowance of excess depreciation claimed on software The said issue has been adjudicated by the Coordinate Bench in the Company’s own case by dismissing Department ground in following years: Assessment Year Paragraph Annexure A.Y. 2015-16 Para 46-47 Annexure 1 A.Y. 2014-15 Para 27-28 Annexure 2 A.Y. 2013-14 Para 9 Annexure 3 A.Y. 2010-11 Para 5.1-5.2 Annexure 4 31. The relevant extract from the Coordinate Bench’s order for A.Y. 2015-16 is as under: “46 Ground No.4. The AO has restricted that rate of depreciation on software as according to him it is in the nature of intangibles. The ld. CIT(A) allowed higher depreciation on software by following the jurisdictional High Court decision in the case of CIT Vs Computer Age Management Services P. Ltd [2019] 109 taxmann.com 134. This issue is squarely covered in favor of the Assessee by the decision of this Tribunal in ITA No.2749/Chny/2017 dated 11.06.2024. “We find that this issue is covered in assessee’s favor by the decision of Hon’ble High Court of Madras in the case of Computer Age Management Services (267 Taxman 146) wherein it has been held that where software license acquired by assessee was in nature of software application, the assessee would be eligible to claim depreciation at 60%.” “47. Respectfully following the same we decide this issue against the revenue and in favour of the Assessee. This ground of appeal no.4 is dismissed.” 32. Hence, Department’s ground on this issue is dismissed, as the issue in earlier year was settled in favour of the assessee and there is nothing on record, which negates the contentions of the assessee or any factual deviation. 33. Ground 4, 4.1 and 4.2 – Disallowance of Secondment payments to AEs. 34. The Assessee has deducted tax under section 192 of the Act on the salary payments accruing to the seconded employees. Given the above, the Company places reliance on the following rulings wherein it has been held that tax shall be withheld only under one section (i.e. in the instant case, under provisions of section 192 of the Act) and accordingly, tax shall not be withheld under section 195 of the Act on the reimbursements made. Consequently, no disallowance under section 40(a) (i) of the Act is warranted. Assessment Year Paragraph Annexure A.Y. 2015-16 Para 46-47 Annexure 1 A.Y. 2014-15 Para 27-28 Annexure 2 A.Y. 2013-14 Para 9 Annexure 3 A.Y. 2010-11 Para 5.1-5.2 Annexure 4 A.Y. 2008-09 Para 5.1 Annexure 5 35. The Ld. DR submitted a note referring to the Delhi High Court judgment in the case of Centrica Offshore. This judgment has also been taken cognizance of by the Hon’ble Tribunal in assessee own case and the argument of the Ld. DR has been rejected. The relevant extract from the ITAT’s direction for A.Y. 2015-16 is as under: “48. Ground Nos.5, 5.1 & 5.2 The AO disallowed the reimbursement as according to him it is in the nature of “fees for technical services”. The ld. CIT (A) allowed the same basis the fact that tax has already been deducted TDS u/s.192 of the Act and also by following the Tribunal decision in Assessee’s own case for AY 2008-09. The Ld. DR vehemently argued that employees are that of the overseas entity and as such deduction of tax at source u/s.192 has no relevance. In this regard, the Ld. DR relied on Delhi High Court decision in the case of Centrica India Offshore Ltd 374 ITR 336 and SLP dismissed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court. 49. We have heard the rival contentions and perused the material on record. All the aspects pointed by the Ld. DR have already been considered by this Tribunal in Assessee’s own case and we find this issue is squarely covered in favor of the Assessee by the decision of this Tribunal in ITA.No.2749/Chny/2017 dated 11.06.2024. “Upon perusal of agreement, it emerges that the assessee has availed services of employees of its group entities. The same was to facilitate business operations of the assessee. These seconded employees have worked under the control and supervision of the assessee which is evident from the fact that the assessee, as an employer, has deducted due TDS u/s.192. Therefore, these payments have already suffered TDS. The assessee has merely reimbursed actual salary to its AE. The same were merely in the nature of reimbursements only and do not include any element of income. The risk and reward of the work performed by the deputed employees was with assessee. Therefore, Ld. DRP, in our opinion, is not correct to treat the same as Fees for Technical Services which would require separate TDS. Accordingly, impugned disallowance as made u/s 40(a) (i) stand deleted.” 50. Respectfully following the same, we decide this issue against the revenue and in favor of the Assessee. This ground of appeal Nos.5, 5.1 & 5.2 are dismissed.” 36. Hence, Department’s ground on this issue is dismissed, as the issue in earlier year was settled in favour of the assessee and there is nothing on record, which negates the contentions of the assessee or any factual deviation. 37. In the result of the above, in nutshell, all the grounds raised by the assessee are allowed for statistical purposes only, whereas the grounds raised by the Revenue are dismissed. Order pronounced on the 7th day of August, 2026, in Chennai. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under ITAT Judgmentssection 143(3)Section 144CSection 192section 195section 37(1)section 40(a)(ia)Transfer Pricing Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,087 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi SC Declines GST Interference Due to Alternative Appeal Remedy, Grants Four Weeks to Appeal September 20, 2026 Composite GST Notice Covering Multiple Years Quashed, Fresh Notices Allowed: Kerala HC September 20, 2026 Inadvertent Form 10-IEA Cannot Override New Regime ITR Choice: ITAT Bangalore September 20, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax P&H HC Quashes Time-Barred Assessment for Superior Officer Intervention September 20, 2026 ITAT Chennai Allows Section 11 Exemption Despite 31-Day Delay in Form 10B September 20, 2026 Goodwill Depreciation on Business Transfer Allowed; Bad Debt Claims Remanded by ITAT Mumbai September 20, 2026 ITAT Mumbai Allows Project Completion Method, Deletes CSR & GST Interest Disallowances September 20, 2026 ITAT Delhi Allows Full Leave Encashment Exemption up to ₹25 Lakh under Section 10(10AA) September 20, 2026 Goodwill from Slump Sale Eligible for Depreciation: ITAT Mumbai September 20, 2026