Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12629 Case Name Chief Municipal Officer Vs Commissioner of Customs (CESTAT Delhi) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All CESTAT, CESTAT Delhi Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Chief Municipal Officer Vs Commissioner of Customs (CESTAT Delhi) Summary: The CESTAT New Delhi considered whether a municipality was liable to service tax on two activities: providing space for display of advertisements through hoardings and renting/licensing its immovable properties, including vacant land, to agencies, persons and traders. The disputed period was 2009-10 to 2014-15, covering both the pre-negative-list and post-negative-list service tax regimes. The appellant had received Rs. 3,06,738/- from hoarding rent during April 2009 to June 2012 and Rs. 3,39,22,974/- as rent from various immovable properties during April 2009 to July 2014. The Department proposed service tax of Rs. 39,22,945/- together with interest, penalties and late fee for non-filing of ST-3 returns. The demand was confirmed by the adjudicating authority and Commissioner (Appeals), leading to the appeal before the Tribunal. The appellant contended that the expression “Renting of Immovable Property Service” had been incorrectly interpreted. It argued, relying particularly on Cuddalore Municipality Vs Joint Commissioner of GST & Central Excise, that the expression “any other person” meant a person other than the owner. It also argued that vacant land was excluded from the relevant definition and that arrears of rent had been taxed at an incorrect service tax rate. On advertisement receipts, the appellant maintained that it merely collected statutory licence fees under the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961 for allotting land on which advertisers erected hoardings, rather than selling advertising space. It further challenged penalties on the ground that there was no intention to evade tax. Paid content Become a Basic or Premium Member, or log in if you are already a Basic or Premium member. Become a Member Already a member? Log in Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Cestat judgments Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,664 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi No Proven Dominance or Market Foreclosure: CCI Closes Case Against Vygon India September 8, 2026 CAAR Mumbai Disallows Roasted Areca Nut Advance Ruling Under Section 28-I(2)(b) September 8, 2026 Next IAS UPSC Success Claims Misleading for Hiding Course Details: CCPA September 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Service Tax Separate Supply and ECIS Contracts Not Works Contracts: CESTAT Delhi September 6, 2026 CESTAT Allows CENVAT Refund Where Credit Was Not Challenged Under Rule 14 September 6, 2026 CESTAT Hyderabad Sets Aside Tax on Pharma Regulatory Approval Support Services September 6, 2026 STPI’s SOFTEX Certification Charges Taxable as Business Support Service: CESTAT Hyderabad September 6, 2026 SVLDRS Discharge Certificate Bars Revenue Appeal on Same Dispute: CESTAT Hyderabad September 6, 2026 Time Share Accommodation Not Taxable as Club or Association Service: CESTAT Hyderabad September 6, 2026