#AD Registering a startup in India is not a single step. It is a sequence. You incorporate your company (Private Limited or LLP), you get your PAN and GST sorted, you open a current account, and then, if you want to unlock real financial benefits, you apply for recognition under the Startup India scheme through DPIIT. That last step is where the value sits. India now has more than 2.23 lakh DPIIT-recognised startups as of 2026, and the number keeps climbing because the benefits attached to that recognition are genuinely material: a three-year tax holiday under Section 80-IAC, protection for your carried-forward losses under Section 79, ESOP tax deferral for your early employees, and more. This article breaks down what that DPIIT recognition actually gets you in hard numbers, what it does not cover (MAT still applies, and most founders do not know this), and how to think about it alongside other registrations like Udyam. Written for founders and their CAs who want the real math, not the brochure version. Table of Contents▸ What Qualifies as a Startup Under DPIIT Startup India Registration Process Tax Benefits Under Startup India Registration Section 80-IAC: The Three-Year Tax Holiday MAT Under Section 115JB: The Nuance That Changes Everything Section 79: Keeping Your Losses Even After Dilution ESOP Taxation Deferral: Section 192(1C) Beyond Tax: Other Benefits of DPIIT Recognition Self-Certification Under Labour and Environmental Laws Fund of Funds Access (Rs 10,000 Crore via SIDBI) Intellectual Property Benefits Faster Exit (90-Day Wind-Up) Public Procurement Preference DPIIT Recognition vs Udyam Registration State-Level Policies That Stack With Central Benefits Getting Started: Practical Next Steps The Bottom Line Frequently Asked Questions Show all 18 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); What Qualifies as a Startup Under DPIIT Before you get excited about tax holidays, let us make sure your company actually qualifies. The eligibility criteria are fairly specific. Your entity type matters. You need to be a Private Limited Company, an LLP, or a Partnership firm. If you are running things as a sole proprietorship, that does not count. Public companies are out too. Your age matters. You need to be within 10 years of incorporation. Past that window, you age out of startup status regardless of how “young” your business model feels. Your turnover matters. If your turnover has crossed Rs 200 crore in any previous financial year, you are no longer eligible. This is a hard ceiling, not a soft guideline. You need to be doing something new. The rules require you to be working toward innovation or improvement of products, processes, or services. And here is an important catch: you cannot have been formed by splitting up or reconstructing an existing business. So if you spun off a “new” entity just to reset the clock on startup benefits, that will not fly. Now, here is a detail that trips up a lot of founders: Section 80-IAC, the big tax holiday everyone wants, is only available to Private Limited Companies and LLPs. If you registered as a Partnership firm, you can still get DPIIT recognition, but the tax exemption door is closed to you. Worth knowing before you pick your entity structure. Startup India Registration Process Getting recognised is a five-step journey, and the first four steps are honestly pretty painless. It is that fifth step where most founders stumble, so pay attention there. Step 1: Incorporate your entity. Set up your Private Limited Company or LLP through the MCA. This is your foundation – nothing happens without it. Step 2: Register on the Startup India portal. Head over to startupindia.gov.in and create your profile. This is the government’s front door for everything startup-related. Step 3: Fill out the recognition application. You will need to upload your Certificate of Incorporation, PAN, a write-up explaining your innovation, and your pitch deck. Think of this as telling your story in the language the government wants to hear. Step 4: Get your DPIIT Recognition Certificate. If your application checks out, you will typically have this in hand within 2-3 working days. Quick, relatively painless. Step 5: Apply separately for Section 80-IAC certification. This is the step everyone forgets. Getting your DPIIT certificate does NOT automatically get you the tax exemption. You need a separate application to the Inter-Ministerial Board (IMB) using Form 1. Let that sink in, because it is the single biggest misconception floating around founder circles. People assume DPIIT recognition equals tax exemption. It does not. The DPIIT certificate gets you into the room. The IMB approval is what actually gets you the tax holiday, and it is a tougher, more scrutinised process. Only about 2-3% of all DPIIT-recognised startups have received IMB approval to date – though among those who actually apply with proper documentation, the approval rate is closer to 50%. So treat this as a genuine application, not a checkbox. Tax Benefits Under Startup India Registration Let us cut through the noise. Every Startup India explainer promises “huge tax savings” without doing the actual math. Here is what the tax code actually gives you, with numbers, so you can walk into your CA’s office and have a real conversation. Section 80-IAC: The Three-Year Tax Holiday This is the headline benefit. Under Section 80-IAC, an eligible startup gets a 100% deduction on profits for any 3 consecutive years out of its first 10 years since incorporation. Pick your best 3 years, and you pay zero income tax on profits in those years. A few conditions gate this. Only Private Limited Companies and LLPs qualify. You must have been incorporated between 1 April 2016 and 1 April 2030 (deadline extended via Finance Bill 2025). And you need separate approval from the Inter-Ministerial Board through Form 1 – this is not a formality. Now let us talk numbers. Say your startup has a Profit Before Tax of Rs 1 crore. Under normal corporate tax rates, you would pay tax at 25.17%, which works out to Rs 25.17 lakh. Get 80-IAC approval, and your income tax liability on this drops to nil. Do this across your chosen 3 years, and you are looking at a gross saving of roughly Rs 75 lakh. That is the pitch every article gives you. Here is the part they leave out. MAT Under Section 115JB: The Nuance That Changes Everything Section 80-IAC exempts you from income tax. It does not exempt you from Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) under Section 115JB. This single sentence is probably the most important thing in this entire article, because it changes your actual savings by nearly 40%. MAT applies at roughly 15.6% on your book profits (15% plus 4% cess), and this kicks in regardless of your 80-IAC status. Note that the Union Budget 2026-27 has reduced the base MAT rate from 15% to 14% effective AY 2027-28, bringing the effective rate down to roughly 14.56% going forward. But for AY 2026-27, on that same Rs 1 crore book profit, you still owe Rs 15.6 lakh in MAT, even during your tax holiday years. Run the real math for AY 2026-27: Rs 25.17 lakh (what you would have paid) minus Rs 15.6 lakh (what you still pay as MAT) gives you an actual saving of about Rs 9.5 lakh per year. From AY 2027-28 onward, the MAT burden drops slightly (to roughly Rs 14.56 lakh), improving your effective saving. Either way, it is not the full Rs 25.17 lakh everyone talks about. Before you feel deflated – MAT is not dead money. Under Section 115JAA, you get to carry forward your MAT credit for 15 years and set it off against your regular tax liability in future years. So this is tax deferral, not tax elimination. Your cash flow benefits now, and you settle the account later when you are more profitable and can absorb it. Section 79: Keeping Your Losses Even After Dilution Startups lose money before they make money. The tax code lets you carry forward these losses and set them off against future profits. But under Section 79, if your shareholding pattern changes by more than 49%, you lose the right to carry forward those losses. This is a serious problem for startups, because every funding round dilutes founders. DPIIT recognition fixes this. Losses are preserved even when dilution pushes founder shareholding below 51%, as long as the same business continues to be carried on. Practical example: your startup has accumulated losses of Rs 3 crore. You raise a Series A round, and founders get diluted to 40%. Without DPIIT recognition, you lose the entire Rs 3 crore loss carry-forward the moment that round closes. With DPIIT recognition, you keep the full Rs 3 crore as a tax shield against future profits. For a startup planning multiple funding rounds, this benefit alone can be worth fighting for. ESOP Taxation Deferral: Section 192(1C) If you are using ESOPs to attract talent, this benefit deserves your attention. Normally, ESOPs get taxed as a perquisite on the date of exercise. The employee pays tax on paper gains from shares they cannot sell – because startup shares are illiquid. That is a brutal position to put your early employees in. DPIIT recognition changes the timeline. Under Section 192(1C), TDS on ESOP perquisites gets deferred to the earliest of: 5 years from allotment, the sale of the shares, or the employee leaving the company. This single change makes ESOPs a genuinely attractive compensation tool rather than a tax trap waiting to spring on your employees. If you are competing for talent against bigger companies paying higher cash salaries, a well-structured ESOP pool with this deferral benefit is one of your strongest cards. Beyond Tax: Other Benefits of DPIIT Recognition If you stop at the 80-IAC exemption, you are leaving a lot of value on the table. The startup India scheme benefits stretch well beyond the income tax act. Self-Certification Under Labour and Environmental Laws DPIIT-recognised startups can self-certify compliance under 6 labour laws and 3 environmental laws instead of going through the usual inspection process. This covers the Payment of Gratuity Act, the Contract Labour Act, and several environmental clearances. The practical effect: no inspector visits for the first five years. You submit your self-declaration on the Startup India portal and get back to building. For a 3-4 person founding team, avoiding compliance visits is real time saved. Fund of Funds Access (Rs 10,000 Crore via SIDBI) The government created a Fund of Funds worth Rs 10,000 crore, managed by SIDBI, that invests in SEBI-registered Alternative Investment Funds. Those AIFs, in turn, invest in startups. So you will not get a cheque directly from the government. What you get is access to a deeper, better-capitalised VC ecosystem. As of 2025-26, over Rs 9,000 crore has been invested through AIFs supported by this Fund of Funds, backing hundreds of startups across sectors. Intellectual Property Benefits Recognised startups get an 80% rebate on patent filing fees and a 50% rebate on trademark filing fees. Plus fast-track examination for patents and access to government-subsidised IP facilitators. Faster Exit (90-Day Wind-Up) Winding up a private company normally takes one to two years. DPIIT-recognised startups can wind up within roughly 90 days through the fast-track resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. That means founders are not locked into years of legal limbo if a venture does not work out. Public Procurement Preference Recognised startups are exempted from prior experience and minimum turnover requirements in government tenders, and get access to the Government e-Marketplace (GeM). This opens up a category of B2G revenue that would otherwise be locked away from anyone without a long operating history. DPIIT Recognition vs Udyam Registration This is one of the most common points of confusion. DPIIT recognition and Udyam registration are not the same thing, and a startup can – and often should – hold both simultaneously. Feature DPIIT Recognition Udyam Registration Purpose Innovation-driven startups Any MSME regardless of innovation Key benefits 80-IAC tax holiday, Section 79, IPR rebates, self-certification Priority lending, delayed payment protection, CLCSS capital subsidy Tax benefits 3-year income tax exemption (needs IMB) No direct income tax exemption Procurement GeM access + turnover exemption Government tender preference Can hold both? Yes Yes – recommended if eligible The straightforward advice: if you qualify for both, register for both. There is no rule against holding dual registration, and the incremental effort is small compared to what you unlock. State-Level Policies That Stack With Central Benefits Most state governments run their own startup policies, and these stack on top of DPIIT benefits rather than replacing them: Karnataka: seed funding of up to Rs 50 lakh + stamp duty reimbursement Gujarat: stamp duty and SGST reimbursement for recognised startups Telangana: structured incubation through T-Hub + prototype development funding Maharashtra: innovation grants of up to Rs 15 lakh None of these require you to give up your central DPIIT benefits. They are additive. If your startup is operating out of one of these states, it is worth spending an afternoon on the state startup policy document. Getting Started: Practical Next Steps If you are convinced and want to move on this, here is the sequence that makes sense: Incorporate your entity as a Private Limited Company or LLP. If you are unsure which structure fits, talk to your CA about the implications for 80-IAC eligibility, liability protection, and compliance load. 1. Apply for DPIIT recognition right after incorporation. It is a free, fully online process through the Startup India portal and typically takes 2-3 working days. 2. Prepare your IMB application early if you intend to pursue the 80-IAC tax holiday. Solid documentation on what makes your business innovative rather than a routine trading or services operation. 3. Register on the Udyam portal simultaneously to pick up MSME-specific benefits. 4. Check your state startup policy for grants, reimbursements, or incubation support that stacks with what you are getting centrally. The Bottom Line Startup India’s tax benefits are real, but they come with fine print that most explainers skip past. 80-IAC can save you meaningful money, but the budget for MAT eating into roughly 40% of your expected savings. Angel tax relief has become universal. But Section 79’s loss carry-forward protection and Section 192(1C)’s ESOP deferral remain genuinely valuable, DPIIT-specific benefits that directly address real pain points founders face as they raise capital and build teams. Get your DPIIT recognition sorted, but go in with realistic numbers. And when you are ready to incorporate, platforms like Razorpay Rize can handle the company registration, documentation, and essential business setup in one place – so you can focus on building rather than paperwork. Frequently Asked Questions Q.1 Is Startup India registration free? Ans. Yes. The entire DPIIT recognition process is free and done online through the Startup India portal. Q.2 Can an LLP claim 80-IAC benefits? Ans. Yes. LLPs are eligible for the 80-IAC tax exemption on the same terms as private limited companies, provided they meet the other conditions. Q.3 What happens when turnover crosses Rs 200 crore? Ans. The startup loses eligibility for DPIIT recognition and the benefits tied to it, since the scheme is meant for entities below that turnover threshold. Q.4 Is DPIIT recognition the same as 80-IAC certification? Ans. No. DPIIT recognition is the first step and gets you benefits like self-certification and IPR rebates. The 80-IAC tax holiday requires a separate, more rigorous approval from the Inter-Ministerial Board. Q.5 Can you hold both DPIIT and Udyam registration? Ans. Yes, and if you are eligible for both, you should register for both to access the full range of benefits each offers. Q.6 How long does DPIIT recognition take? Ans. Usually 2-3 working days once you submit complete documentation. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under MSME RegistrationStartup India Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance Is the Zero Depreciation Add-on Worth It for Your Car Insurance? September 9, 2026 IFSCA Unifies Insider Trading and Market Abuse Rules in IFSC September 8, 2026 IFSCA Expands Rating Withdrawal Flexibility for IFSC CRAs September 8, 2026 Bank Lost Title Deeds: Bombay HC Awards ₹5,000 Daily Until Reconstruction September 8, 2026 Tax and Corporate Compliance for AI Businesses in India: An Astro247 Case Study September 8, 2026 From First Enquiry to Final Invoice: Digitising the Modern Professional Practice September 7, 2026