Summary: GSTN’s Multistate Registration facility, introduced through an GSTN Advisory Dated 1 October 2026, allows a person with the same PAN to initiate GST registration applications for several States or Union Territories together by generating a Master TRN and furnishing Common Registration Information (CRI) once. Separate State-wise TRNs and FORM GST REG-01 applications nevertheless continue, with State-specific business premises details and Aadhaar authentication completed independently. The facility can therefore reduce duplication and improve consistency without replacing the State-wise registration framework under Section 25 of the CGST Act. However, Rule 8 does not expressly contemplate a Master TRN or CRI, raising questions about the legal limits of portal functionality, particularly the advisory’s 15-day Master TRN period compared with the statutory 30-day registration period under Section 25(1). Section 146 enables the Common Portal to facilitate prescribed GST functions, but a GSTN advisory does not have the status of a statutory rule, notification or binding instruction under Sections 164 and 168. The facility is therefore analysed as a technology-enabled facilitative layer whose operation should remain consistent with the Act, Rules and FORM GST REG-01. Table of Contents▸ 1. Introduction The advisory at a glance 2. How the New Facility Works Process flow 3. What the GST Law Actually Provides 4. Does the Facility Conflict with the Registration Rules? 5. Benefits of the Facility 6. Points of Caution 7. Can GSTN Introduce Functionality Not Written in the Law? 8. Legal Status of a GSTN Advisory 9. Practical Takeaways for Taxpayers and Advisers 10. Conclusion Show all 12 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 1. Introduction On 1 October 2026, GSTN released an advisory announcing a new “Multistate Registration” feature on the GST Common Portal. A person holding a single PAN can now begin applications for GST registration in several States and Union Territories in one go, rather than repeating the exercise State by State. For the time being, the feature is open only to Normal Taxpayers. The intent is clearly welcome. Details that are common to every registration are entered once and then carried into each State-wise application automatically. Yet the feature prompts a more fundamental question for GST practitioners: can a portal functionality introduce a step that the CGST Rules and FORM GST REG-01 do not expressly mention? Answering it calls for a clear line between two things: helping taxpayers comply with the law, and altering the procedure the law has prescribed. This article sets out how the facility works, tests it against the statute, weighs its benefits and risks, and explains the legal standing of GSTN advisories. The advisory at a glance Issued by / on Team GSTN, Advisory dated 1 October 2026 New feature “Multistate Registration” tab on the GST Common Portal Who can use it Persons holding the same PAN, at present Normal Taxpayers only What it does Allows applications for registration in several States / UTs to be initiated together, with common data entered once Key identifiers One Master TRN, followed by a separate TRN for every State / UT Portal time limit Master TRN must be acted upon within 15 days Core legal question Is this a legitimate facilitative tool, or a procedure that goes beyond Section 25 and Rule 8? 2. How the New Facility Works The applicant begins by choosing the relevant States / UTs under the new tab, which produces a Master TRN. Against this Master TRN, the applicant furnishes Common Registration Information (CRI), covering business details, promoters or partners, the authorised signatory, the authorised representative and the goods or services dealt in. Once the CRI is submitted (within 15 days of the Master TRN), the portal generates a separate TRN for each chosen State / UT. The common data flows into every State application and can still be edited. The applicant then completes the State-specific particulars, namely the Principal Place of Business, Additional Places of Business and Aadhaar authentication, for each State separately. Process flow STEP 1 | One PAN, registration needed in several States / UTs ↓ STEP 2 | Select the “Multistate Registration” tab and choose the States / UTs ↓ STEP 3 | MASTER TRN is generated ↓ STEP 4 | Common Registration Information (CRI) is furnished Business details • Promoters / Partners • Authorised Signatory • Authorised Representative • Goods / Services ↓ Submit within 15 days STEP 5 | Separate State-wise TRNs are generated (CRI auto-populates, but stays editable) ↓ ↓ ↓ Delhi Maharashtra Karnataka ↓ ↓ ↓ State-specific data: PPoB / APoB, State particulars, Aadhaar authentication State-specific data: PPoB / APoB, State particulars, Aadhaar authentication State-specific data: PPoB / APoB, State particulars, Aadhaar authentication ↓ ↓ ↓ Separate FORM GST REG-01 application Separate FORM GST REG-01 application Separate FORM GST REG-01 application ↓ STEP 6 | Independent processing by the Proper Officer of each State / UT 3. What the GST Law Actually Provides Section 25(1), CGST Act: every person liable to registration must apply “in every such State or Union territory in which he is so liable”, within thirty days of becoming liable, in the prescribed manner. Section 25(4), CGST Act: registrations held in different States / UTs are treated as distinct persons. Rule 8: the applicant declares the PAN and the State / UT in Part A of FORM GST REG-01. After validation, a temporary reference number is issued, and Part B of the form is filed electronically against it. GST therefore still envisages separate State-wise registrations, not one consolidated all-India registration. Importantly, Rule 8 makes no mention of a “Master TRN” or “Common Registration Information (CRI)”. This gap is the heart of the legal debate. 4. Does the Facility Conflict with the Registration Rules? In substance, probably not, provided it remains only a facilitative layer and every State-wise application independently satisfies Section 25, Rule 8, FORM GST REG-01 and the verification requirements. The table below tests each feature against the law. Issue Requirement of GST law New GSTN facility Assessment Registration in multiple States Separate registration in each State / UT of liability (Section 25(1)) Separate TRNs are ultimately generated for each State Consistent Identity of registrations Registrations in different States are distinct persons (Section 25(4)) Separate State applications continue Consistent Application form FORM GST REG-01 under Rule 8 Data first collected as CRI, then auto-populated Acceptable as facilitation, if REG-01 remains the statutory application State selection State / UT specified in Part A of REG-01 Several States selected at the outset A procedural innovation not expressly contemplated by Rule 8 TRN Rule 8 contemplates a TRN after verification Master TRN, then individual TRNs “Master TRN” has no express statutory description State-specific details Required separately PPoB / APoB and others furnished separately Consistent Aadhaar authentication Section 25 and Rule 8(4A) Required separately for each application Consistent 15-day Master TRN validity No corresponding statutory limit apparent Advisory prescribes 15 days Should work only as a technical validity period, not a substantive legal limit The feature is therefore best viewed as a technology-enabled common data-entry facility and not as a new legal mode of registration. The distinction has practical consequences, particularly for the 15-day window: Where the 15-day period becomes legally questionable If missing the 15-day window merely forces the applicant to restart the process, it is an ordinary portal-management feature. But if the period were used to refuse a registration, shorten the thirty days allowed by Section 25(1), fix the effective date of registration, or otherwise prejudice statutory rights, the functionality would be open to challenge. 5. Benefits of the Facility For businesses operating across the country, the facility responds to a genuine compliance burden. Less duplication: re-keying identical corporate details across ten, twenty or thirty State registrations serves little regulatory purpose. One validated dataset removes the repetition. Better data consistency: differences in directors’ names, addresses, HSN / SAC details or signatories often creep in only because applications are prepared separately. Auto-population reduces this. Time and cost savings: professional and administrative effort falls sharply for businesses expanding nationally, restructuring, merging or setting up operations in several States. State structure preserved: the Principal and Additional Places of Business, State particulars and authentication all remain State-specific. This is a sound use of technology for ease of doing business, without dismantling the State-wise architecture of GST registration. 6. Points of Caution Alongside the benefits, the facility raises practical and legal concerns that taxpayers and advisers should keep in view. Concern Why it matters Suggested approach Errors in CRI replicate A mistake in the common data can flow into many applications at once, even though it remains editable. Verify every State application individually before submission. 15-day Master TRN period Section 25(1) gives thirty days to apply. A portal timeline must not be confused with the statutory period. Treat 15 days as a system limit; track the 30-day statutory deadline separately. Uneven verification Aadhaar / biometric, risk-based or physical verification may proceed differently in each State, so simultaneous initiation does not mean simultaneous grant. Plan for staggered approvals and follow up State by State. Independence of each registration Each registration is legally separate. A rejection in one State should not affect pending applications elsewhere merely because they share a Master TRN. Contest any attempt to link outcomes across States. Misunderstanding of “application” Taxpayers may assume that generating a Master TRN or submitting CRI amounts to applying for registration. Confirm the legally relevant submission under Rule 8 and REG-01, including Aadhaar authentication. 7. Can GSTN Introduce Functionality Not Written in the Law? The answer needs precision. Section 146 empowers the Government, on the recommendation of the GST Council, to notify the Common GST Electronic Portal for registration, payment of tax, filing of returns and other prescribed functions. The portal is run by GSTN, a company incorporated under Section 8 of the Companies Act. Notification No. 9/2018-Central Tax, as retrospectively amended by the Finance Act, 2022, recognises gst.gov.in as the Common Portal for functions under the CGST Rules. This gives GSTN firm authority to build technology that implements the Rules. It does not give GSTN a separate power to legislate. The order of authority remains as follows: CGST Act ↓ CGST Rules and Notifications issued under statutory authority ↓ Statutory Forms (e.g. FORM GST REG-01) ↓ Circulars / Instructions of the competent authority ↓ GST Portal functionality ↓ GSTN Advisories, FAQs and user guidance Guiding principle Technology must follow the law; the law cannot be rewritten through technology. In a different factual setting, the Punjab & Haryana High Court, in recent decisions on electronic service, has similarly stressed that making a function available on the Common Portal cannot by itself make up for the absence of a corresponding statutory prescription. 8. Legal Status of a GSTN Advisory A GSTN advisory is not a notification, a rule or a statutory circular. Section 164 authorises the Government, on the recommendation of the GST Council, to make Rules by notification. Section 168 separately authorises the Board to issue orders, instructions or directions for the uniform implementation of the Act, which tax officers and other persons engaged in its implementation must follow. An advisory issued under the name “Team GSTN” acquires neither character merely because it is hosted on gst.gov.in. Its role is to explain portal functionality and guide users. It can describe how the system operates, but it cannot create rights or obligations, shorten statutory timelines or override the Act and the Rules. 9. Practical Takeaways for Taxpayers and Advisers Use the facility for convenience, but treat each State application as a stand-alone FORM GST REG-01 filing. Calendar the 30-day statutory deadline under Section 25(1) independently of the 15-day Master TRN window. Review auto-populated data in every State application, particularly signatory, address and HSN / SAC details. Keep records of the TRNs, submission dates and Aadhaar authentication status for each State. If a portal timeline is invoked to deny or delay a registration, examine whether it has any basis in the Act or the Rules. 10. Conclusion The Multistate Registration facility is a practical step towards simpler compliance for businesses spread across States. As long as it operates purely as a common data-entry aid, with each State-wise application remaining a complete and independent FORM GST REG-01 filing, it fits within the framework of Section 25 and Rule 8. Its limits, however, must be respected. The Master TRN and the 15-day period are technical constructs, not statutory ones. They should never be used to reduce the thirty-day period for applying, to determine the effective date of registration, or to prejudice any right the law gives. Likewise, a GSTN advisory can guide users but cannot add to or subtract from the Act and the Rules. In short, the facility deserves welcome as ease of doing business delivered through technology, without stepping outside the law. Its success will depend on GSTN keeping it a facilitative layer, and on taxpayers continuing to treat the statute, not the portal, as the final authority. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Registration Author Info Name: CA RAJENDER ARORA Qualification: CA in Practice Company: GST Research Foundation Location: DELHI, Delhi Articles Published: 63 View full profile → More from CA RAJENDER ARORA GSTAT Digital Appellate System: SOPs for Reply Filing and Transfer of Appeals October 1, 2026 57th GST Council Meeting: Registration, ITC and Process Reforms in Focus September 30, 2026 Ten Significant GSTAT Rulings Shaping Emerging GST Jurisprudence September 28, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GSTAT Lucknow Quashes E-Way Bill Penalty for Bona Fide 9-Minute Delay October 4, 2026 Recent GST Updates: GSTN Appeals, emSigner, GSTAT SOPs & Multistate Registration October 4, 2026 Bank Credits Are Not Sales: Limits of Estimating GST Turnover from a Current Account October 4, 2026 GST on Transfer of Leasehold Rights In Industrial Land: Is The Question Really Settled? October 4, 2026 GST Tax Invoice for Goods: Mandatory Particulars and Compliance Significance October 4, 2026 GST Penalties: Understanding Defaults, Consequences and Legal Safeguards October 4, 2026