Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12720 Case Name Hi-Tech Radiators Private Limited Vs DCIT (ITAT Mumbai) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Related Assessment Year 2018-19 Courts All ITAT, ITAT Mumbai Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Hi-Tech Radiators Private Limited Vs DCIT (ITAT Mumbai) Summary: The assessee, Hi-Tech Radiators Private Limited, challenged the order of the learned CIT(A), NFAC, for AY 2018-19 concerning disallowance of depreciation claimed on goodwill and non-compete fees. The assessee had acquired the running business of M/s Techno Electricals through a slump sale transaction during FY 2009-10. Under the Deed of Conveyance dated 01.10.2009, the assessee acquired the business along with its assets and liabilities and issued 5,00,000 equity shares of Rs. 100 each to the proprietor. The excess of the consideration over the net value of assets and liabilities was recorded as Rs. 4,46,07,462 goodwill and Rs. 50 lakh non-compete fees. The assessee did not claim depreciation on either amount in the earlier assessment years and claimed depreciation for the first time in AY 2018-19, namely Rs. 1,11,51,866 on goodwill and Rs. 12,50,000 on non-compete fees. The Assessing Officer disallowed the entire depreciation claim of Rs. 1,24,01,866. Relying upon the sixth proviso to section 32(1), Explanation 2 to section 43(6)(c) and Explanation 7 to section 43(1), the AO held that the actual cost and written down value of the relevant intangible block in the predecessor’s hands were nil. The AO also relied upon United Breweries Ltd. and held that depreciation in the successor’s hands could not exceed the depreciation allowable to the predecessor. The CIT(A) upheld the disallowance and also relied upon the amendment made by the Finance Act, 2021, treating it as prospective. During the hearing before the Tribunal, the assessee’s learned AR fairly submitted that, following the Supreme Court’s decision in Sharp Business System, non-compete fees were revenue expenditure under section 37(1), making the depreciation claim on that amount unsustainable. The Tribunal accordingly rejected the depreciation claim on non-compete fees. The Supreme Court’s TaxGuru publication records the ruling that non-compete payments facilitating existing business operations are revenue expenditure under section 37(1). (TaxGuru) As regards goodwill, the assessee relied upon section 32(1)(ii) and CIT v. Smifs Securities Ltd., submitting that goodwill arising from the slump sale qualified as a business or commercial right of similar nature. The Revenue maintained that the Finance Act, 2021 amendment had retrospective applicability. The Tribunal examined the transaction and found that the goodwill had arisen in the process of acquiring the running business and was not reflected as an asset or part of the depreciable block in the proprietary concern’s books. It relied upon the reasoning in Dow Chemical International (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT, where the Coordinate Bench had held that the sixth proviso to section 32(1) presupposes an existing depreciable asset in the amalgamating company’s block and operates to restrict aggregate depreciation on the same asset. The Tribunal further followed Urmin Marketing (P.) Ltd. v. DCIT, holding that where goodwill represents the difference between purchase consideration and the net assets acquired and was not acquired as an asset from the amalgamating/transferor entity, the sixth proviso to section 32(1), Explanation 7 to section 43(1) and Explanation 2(b) to section 43(6) could not be applied. TaxGuru has an independently verified publication concerning Urmin Marketing. Urmin Marketing P.Ltd. Now known as Unicorn Packaging LLP Vs DCIT The Tribunal also noted that United Breweries Ltd., relied upon by the lower authorities, was distinguishable because the facts there concerned the value of goodwill in the amalgamating company’s books and the valuation dispute was materially different. The Coordinate Bench in Urmin Marketing had distinguished that decision for similar reasons. On the Finance Act, 2021 amendment, the Tribunal followed the Coordinate Bench’s conclusion that the amendment excluding goodwill from depreciable intangible assets was effective from 01.04.2021 and therefore applied from AY 2021-22 onwards. TaxGuru’s Finance Act 2021 material records the amendment to section 32 excluding goodwill from depreciable intangible assets. Finance Act 2021 Consequently, the Tribunal held that the assessee was entitled to depreciation on goodwill arising from the slump sale transaction under section 32. The AO was directed to allow depreciation on goodwill and the impugned order was set aside on that issue. Ground No. 4 was partly allowed. The remaining grounds did not require separate adjudication. The appeal was therefore partly allowed. Cases Discussed CIT v. Smifs Securities Ltd. — relied upon regarding goodwill as an intangible asset eligible for depreciation under section 32. Sharp Business System v. CIT — considered on the treatment of non-compete fees as revenue expenditure under section 37(1). United Breweries Ltd. v/s Addl. CIT, reported in [2016] 76 taxmann.com 103 (Bang.) — relied upon by the lower authorities and distinguished in the present factual context. Dow Chemical International (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT, reported in [2024] 169 taxmann.com 290 (Mumbai – Trib.), — followed on the applicability of the sixth proviso to section 32(1) and related provisions concerning goodwill arising on amalgamation. Padmini Products (P.) Ltd. v/s DCIT, reported in [2020] 121 taxmann.com 237 (Karnataka) — considered on the operation of the fifth/sixth proviso to section 32(1). TaxGuru has an independently verified publication of the case. Urmin Marketing (P.) Ltd. v/s DCIT, reported in [2020] 122 taxmann.com 40 (Ahd.-Trib.)— followed on goodwill arising as the difference between purchase consideration and net assets in an amalgamation transaction. Aricent Technologies (Holdings) Ltd. v/s DCIT, in ITA No.90/Del/2013 — referred to for distinguishing United Breweries Ltd. I&B Seeds (P) Ltd v/s DCIT, reported in [2022] 142 taxmann.com 274 (Bang-Trib.) — referred to regarding the effective date of the Finance Act, 2021 amendment concerning depreciation on goodwill. FULL TEXT OF THE ORDER OF ITAT MUMBAI The assessee has filed the present appeal against the impugned order dated 30/12/2025, passed under section 250 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (“the Act”) by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), National Faceless Appeal Centre, Delhi, [“learned CIT(A)”], for the assessment year for the assessment year 2018-19. 2. In this appeal, the assessee has raised the following grounds: – Ground 1: The learned CIT-A erred in law in not granting opportunity of personal hearing to the appellant despite a specific request being made in the submissions Ground 2: On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, the CIT-A erred by failing to adjudicate upon the Ground no. 1 relating to the violation of the Principles of Natural Justice by the Ld. Assessing Officer. Ground 3: The learned CIT-A erred in law and in facts, in stating wrong Assessment Year in the impugned Order Under section 250. Ground 4: On the facts and in the circumstances of the case erred in upholding disallowance of depreciation on Intangible Assets (Goodwill and Non-Compete Fees) arising from an acquisition on a going concern on a Slump Sale basis. 3. The only issue that arises for our consideration, in the present case, pertains to the disallowance of the claim of depreciation on intangible assets, i.e. goodwill and non-compete fees. 4. The brief facts of the case pertaining to this issue, as emanating from the record, are: The assessee is a private domestic company engaged in the business of manufacturing transformer radiators and tanks. For the year under consideration, the assessee filed its return of income on 12/10/2018, declaring a total income of Rs. 1,33,10,200. The return filed by the assessee was selected for scrutiny, and statutory notices under section 143(2) and section 142(1) of the Act were issued and served on the assessee. During the assessment proceedings, it was observed that a substantial addition of intangible assets has been reported during the year under consideration in the income tax return filed by the assessee. As per the assessee, during the financial year 2009-10, the sole proprietary concern, M/s Techno Electricals, was converted into the existing private limited company, i.e. M/s Hi-tech Radiators Private Ltd, through a slump sale transaction. During the assessment proceedings, the assessee submitted that this transaction generated the goodwill amounting to Rs. 4,46,07,462 and non-compete fees amounting to Rs. 50 lakh, which was recognised as intangible assets in the books of account. It was further submitted that these intangible assets were never considered for the purpose of calculation of gross block of intangible assets from the assessment year 2010-11 to 2017-18, and were added for the first time to the block of assets in the financial year 2017-18, relevant to the year under consideration, and depreciation of Rs. 1,11,51,866 and Rs. 12,50,000, was claimed in respect of goodwill and non-compete fees, respectively, during the year under consideration. As per the assessee, the goodwill qualifies for depreciation in the nature of “any other business or commercial rights of a similar nature” under section 32(1) of the Act, read with Explanation-3 to the said section. In this regard, the assessee relied upon the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in CIT v/s Smifs Securities Ltd., reported in [2012] 348 ITR 302 (SC). 5. The Assessing Officer (“AO”), vide order dated 30/06/2021 passed under section 143(3) read with section 144B of the Act, held that the main question that needs to be examined is not whether depreciation is allowable on goodwill, but whether depreciation is allowable on goodwill acquired during amalgamation. The AO held that, as per section 32(1) of the Act, the depreciation in case of any block of assets is to be computed on the written down value of the block of assets, which we shall have the same meaning as in section 43(6)(c) of the Act. Further, by referring to the provisions of Explanation 7 to section 43 (1) of the Act, the AO held that in the case of amalgamation, the capital asset transferred by the amalgamating company to the amalgamated company shall have the same actual cost, which it would have been if the amalgamating company had continued to hold the capital asset for the purpose of its business. Accordingly, the AO held that, as in the present case, the actual cost of the goodwill in the case of the proprietary concern was Nil, the actual cost in the case of the assessee shall also be Nil. Further, by referring to the provisions of Explanation 2 to section 43(6)(c) of the Act, the AO held that since the written down value of the intangible asset in the books of the proprietary concern was Nil, the actual cost would remain Nil in the hands of the assessee. By referring to the provisions of 6th proviso (5th proviso before the Finance Act, 2015) to section 32(1) of the Act, the AO held that the depreciation needs to be restricted to the value considering that the amalgamation has not taken place and since, in the present case, in the hands of the proprietary concern, the depreciation was Nil, there cannot be depreciation in the hands of the assessee company. In this regard, the AO also placed reliance upon the decision of the Coordinate Bench of the Tribunal in United Breweries Ltd. v/s Addl. CIT, reported in [2016] 76 taxmann.com 103 (Bang.). Accordingly, the AO disallowed the claim of depreciation of Rs. 1,11,51,866 on goodwill and Rs. 12,50,000 on non-compete fees. 6. The learned CIT(A), vide impugned order, dismissed the appeal filed by the assessee and upheld the disallowance of depreciation claim by the assessee on goodwill and non-compete fees. In this regard, the learned CIT(A) also relied on the amendment by the Finance Act, 2021 and held the said amendment to be prospective in nature. Being aggrieved, the assessee is in appeal before us. 7. During the hearing, the learned Authorised Representative (“learned AR”) submitted that the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Sharp Business System v/s CIT, reported in (2025) 181 taxmann.com 657 (SC), has held that the payment of non-compete fee is a revenue expenditure under section 37(1) of the Act. Accordingly, the learned AR submitted that since the non-compete fee has been held to be revenue expenditure, the claim of depreciation by the assessee on the same is now unsustainable. Further, the learned AR submitted that since the expenditure on the non-compete fee was incurred in the financial year 2009-10 and not claimed in that year, the said expenditure cannot be claimed in the year under consideration. As regards the depreciation claimed on goodwill, the learned AR submitted that the assessee purchased assets and liabilities of the proprietary concern by way of slump sale and consideration paid, by way of issuance of shares, over and above the net asset value of the proprietary concern was considered as goodwill and non-compete fees by the assessee in its books of accounts. The learned AR submitted that even though goodwill and non-compete fees were recognised in the books of accounts in the year of acquisition, i.e. the financial year 2009-10. However, no depreciation was claimed by the assessee till the year under consideration, and even the Department never gave any depreciation to the assessee in the earlier assessment years. By placing reliance on various judicial pronouncements, the learned AR submitted that all the contentions of the Revenue have already been considered by the Coordinate Benches of the Tribunal, and the issue of depreciation on goodwill arising out of an amalgamation/slump sale transaction has been decided in favour of the taxpayer. The learned AR further submitted that the amendment by the Finance Act, 2021, whereby goodwill of the business has been excluded for the purpose of claim of depreciation under section 32 of the Act, is prospective in nature, and thus is not applicable to the year under consideration. 8. On the contrary, the learned Departmental Representative (“learned DR”), vehemently relying upon the order passed by the lower authorities, submitted that the amendment by the Finance Act, 2021, to the provisions of section 32 of the Act has a retrospective applicability, and thus has rightly been invoked by the learned CIT(A) for rejecting the claim of the assessee. 9. We have considered the submissions of both sides and perused the material available on record. During the financial year 2009-10, the sole proprietary concern, M/s Techno Electricals, was converted into a private limited company, i.e. M/s Hi-tech Radiators Private Ltd. Vide Deed of Conveyance dated 01/10/2009, the assessee agreed to acquire the running business of M/s Techno Electricals along with all its assets and liabilities pertaining to its business. As a consideration, the assessee company issued 5,00,000 equity shares of Rs. 100 each at a premium of Rs. NIL per share to the proprietor of M/s Techno Electricals. As the total consideration paid by the assessee, by way of the issuance of shares, exceeded the total value of assets after reducing the total value of liabilities of the proprietary concern, the balance amount was recognised by the assessee as non-compete fees and goodwill in its books. Accordingly, Rs. 50 lakh was considered as non-compete fees and Rs. 4,46,07,462 was considered as goodwill by the assessee in its books of accounts. However, the assessee did not claim depreciation on the non-compete fees and goodwill in any of the previous assessment years, and only in the year under consideration the assessee claimed the depreciation for the first time. 10. Insofar as the depreciation claimed on non-compete fees, the learned AR, during the hearing, fairly submitted that the issue whether non-compete fees are revenue or capital expenditure has recently been settled by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Sharp Business System (supra). The learned AR submitted that, pursuant to the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Sharp Business System (supra), non-compete fees can be allowed only as a revenue expenditure under section 37(1) of the Act. Accordingly, the learned AR submitted that in view of the law laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court, the assessee’s claim of depreciation on non-compete fees is unsustainable. Having considered the aforesaid submissions, the depreciation claimed by the assessee on non-compete fees is rejected. 11. As regards the depreciation claimed by the assessee on goodwill, as per the assessee, the goodwill recognised in its books of accounts pursuant to the slump sale transaction falls within the ambit of the expression “business or commercial rights of similar nature” under section 32(1)(ii) of the Act. In this regard, the assessee placed reliance upon the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Smifs Securities Ltd. (supra). However, the AO rejected the plea of the assessee observing as follows: – “Disallowing the claim of depreciation on the following grounds – The assessee has made claim of depreciation during the financial year 2017-18 relevant to assessment year 2018-19, on the intangible asset which were generated upon converting the sole proprietary business into private limited company occurring into a slump sale transaction during the F.Y.2009-10 relevant to assessment year 2010-11. In response, the assessee has relied on the decision of Hon. Supreme Court in the case of SMIFS Securities Ltd & ITAT decision in the case of Fibres & Fabrics International Pvt Ltd (ITAT) and furnished documents as stated above. These decision only emphasises that goodwill is a depreciable asset under section 32 of the Act. Depreciation under the Income Tax Act is a deduction allowed for the decline in the real value of a tangible or intangible asset used by a taxpayer. Depreciation is calculated on the WDV of a Block of assets. As per section 32(1) of the Act ‘depreciation’, in the case of any block of assets, is to be computed on the written down value. Considering the 6th proviso to section 32(1) of the Income Tax Act, the aggregate deduction, in respect of depreciation in respect of tangible or intangible assets allowable to the predecessor i.e. Techno Electricals Pvt. Ltd was NIL, therefore this cannot exceed in respect of the successor, Hi-Tech Radiators Pvt. Ltd. The block of assets of intangible assets in the hands of the proprietary concern i.e. Techno Electricals Pvt. Ltd was NIL. According to Expl 2 to section 43(6)- the actual cost of the block of asset (intangible block in this case) in the hands of the transferee company or amalgamated company (Hi-tech Radiators) shall be the written down value of the block of assets as in the case of the transferor company or the amalgamating company (Techno Electricals Pvt. Ltd) for the immediate preceding year. Since, the written down value of the intangible block of asset was zero in the books of Techno Electricals the actual cost would remain zero in the hand of company. Expl.7 to section 43(1) -Where, in a scheme of amalgamation, any capital asset is transferred by the amalgamating company to the amalgamated company and the amalgamated company is an Indian company, the actual cost of the transferred capital asset to the amalgamated company shall be taken to be the same as it would have been if the amalgamating company had continued to hold the capital asset for the purposes of its own business. As there was no intangible assets with the proprietary concern, therefore the actual cost in the hands of the company would be NIL. The above discussion supports the view that the actual cost of goodwill acquired by the amalgamated company is to be taken as zero in view of Explanation 7 to section 43(1) and Explanation 2 to section 43(6)(c). The Fixed assets of the proprietary concern comprised of assets such as Building, Plant & Machinery, Furniture & Fixtures and Computers but no intangible assets of goodwill and compete fees. However, the assessee on acquisition, has recorded in its books of accounts, the assets and liabilities of Techno Electricals which includes the intangible assets. The assessee also confirmed that these were not reflected in the books of M/s Techno Electricals and that it was recorded by the company pursuant to acquisition of business of M/s Techno Electricals by its submission, as mentioned above. Relying on the decision of ITAT Bangalore in the case of United Breweries Ltd. which held that once the claim of depreciation stood restricted, the valuation issue becomes irrelevant and concluded that assessee could not be allowed depreciation on the assets acquired under amalgamation more than the depreciation is allowable to the amalgamating company. ITAT with respect to assessee”s reliance on Smifs Securities Ltd. held that the only issue there under was whether the goodwill falls in the category of intangible assets or any other business or commercial rights of similar nature and the same would not override the provisions of 6th proviso to Sec. 32(1) Thus ITAT concluded that depreciation was very well covered by 6th proviso to Sec. 32(1). The submissions of the assessee have been carefully considered but not found acceptable for the reasons discussed and explained above. The assessee has failed to controvert the above facts and has been unable to justify his claim for depreciation on this asset. Considering the facts and the judicial decisions discussed above and relying on the decision of ITAT Bangalore in the case of United Breweries Ltd. (TS-553-ITAT-2016-Bang, the depreciation claimed by the assessee is not allowable and amount of Rs.1,24,01,866/- claimed as depreciation for the intangible assets are disallowed. Relying on the decision of ITAT Bangalore in the case of United Breweries Ltd. (TS-553-ITAT-2016-Bang), in which the ITAT considered the assessee’s (amalgamated /successor company) claim of depreciation on goodwill arising on amalgamation applying 6th proviso to section 32(1) for AY 2008-09, and held that assessee cannot claim depreciation on assets acquired under amalgamation, more than the depreciation allowable to amalgamating company, the generation of goodwill amounting to Rs.4,46,07,462/- & non-compete fees amounting to Rs.50,00,000/-, and the subsequent claim of depreciation during the year for Rs.1,24,01,866/- is hereby disallowed and added to the total income.” 12. Therefore, from the careful perusal of the findings of the AO, it is evident that the claim of depreciation on goodwill was denied by placing reliance upon the provisions of 6th proviso (5th proviso before the Finance Act, 2015) to section 32(1), Explanation 2 to section 43(6), and Explanation 7 to section 43(1) of the Act. We find that while considering a similar issue, the Coordinate Bench of the Tribunal in Dow Chemical International (P.) Ltd. vs. DCIT, reported in [2024] 169 taxmann.com 290 (Mumbai – Trib.), after considering similar provisions as relied upon by the Revenue in the present case for denying the claim of the assessee, observed as follows: – “22. As regards the reliance placed by the Revenue upon the sixth proviso to section 32(1) of the Act, we are of the considered view that the sixth proviso to section 32(1) of the Act presupposes that there exists a depreciable asset in the block of the amalgamating company which is transferred on amalgamation and depreciation is allowable to both the amalgamating company and the amalgamated company on the same asset. Accordingly, the said proviso provides a mechanism for splitting depreciation on such asset transferred by the amalgamating company between the amalgamating and amalgamated company, in a manner that the aggregate depreciation should not exceed the threshold provided in the said proviso. We find that the Hon’ble Karnataka High Court in Padmini Products (P.) Ltd. v/s DCIT, reported in [2020] 121 taxmann.com 237 (Karnataka) held that fifth proviso (now sixth proviso) to section 32(1)(ii) of the Act restricts aggregate deduction by the predecessor and successor and if in a particular year there is no aggregate deduction, the provisions of the proviso shall not be applicable. It was further held that until and unless it is the case of aggregate deduction, the proviso has no role to play. Thus, adverting to the facts of the instant case, since the amalgamating company did not have any goodwill recorded in its books of accounts or as part of a block of depreciable assets, prior to amalgamation, therefore the question of claim of depreciation on goodwill by the amalgamating company does not arise in the instant case. Accordingly, we are of the considered view that the provisions of the sixth proviso to section 32(1) of the Act are not applicable to the facts of the present case since the goodwill did not exist in the books of the amalgamating company but has arisen in the process of amalgamation. 23. Further, the Revenue has placed reliance upon the provisions of Explanation 7 to section 43(1) of the Act which provides that when a capital asset is transferred by an amalgamating company to the amalgamated company, the actual cost of the transferred capital asset in the hands of the amalgamated company is to be taken to be the same as it would have been if the amalgamating company had continued to hold the capital asset for the purpose of its own business. Further, reliance has also been placed upon the provisions of Explanation 2(b) to section 43(6) of the Act, which lays down a similar principle as Explanation 7 to section 43(1) of the Act and provides that actual cost of the block of assets in the case of amalgamated company shall be the Written Down Value of the block of assets in the case of amalgamating company for the immediately preceding previous year as reduced by the amount of depreciation actually allowed in relation to the said preceding previous year. Thus, from the careful perusal of the aforesaid provisions, it is evident that the same pre-supposes either the existence of a block or the value of goodwill forming part of such block or the asset has actual cost to the amalgamating company. However, in the instant case, as noted above, the goodwill arising on account of amalgamation was neither reflected as an asset nor was part of the block of assets belonging to the amalgamating company. We find that while considering the applicability of the provisions of the sixth proviso to section 32(1), Explanation 7 to section 43(1) and Explanation 2(b) to section 43(6) of the Act in a similar factual matrix wherein the goodwill as claimed by the taxpayer represents the difference between the purchase consideration and value of the net assets acquired on amalgamation, the coordinate bench of the Tribunal in Urmin Marketing (P.) Ltd. v/s DCIT, reported in [2020] 122 taxmann.com 40 (Ahd.-Trib.) held that since the taxpayer had not acquired any goodwill from the amalgamating company, therefore these provisions are not applicable. The relevant findings of the coordinate bench, in the aforesaid decision, are reproduced as follows: – “32.4 From the above, it would appear that the intent of the Legislature is to make amalgamation a tax neutral scheme for companies as well as for the shareholders and not to provide a tax planning mechanism to either of them. However, a conjoint reading of the above provisions reveal that the assets which were transferred by the amalgamating company to the amalgamated company in the process of amalgamation were not made subject to the capital gain tax. Furthermore, the 6th proviso to section 32 of the Act has limited the amount of depreciation available to the amalgamated company post amalgamation to the extent of the amount of depreciation which would have been available to the amalgamating company, had there not been any amalgamation. Indeed there was no entry in the books of the transferor/amalgamating company for the intangible assets/goodwill being self-generated assets. However, we note that all the relevant provisions of the Act as discussed above deal with respect to the assets available/recorded in the books of the transferor/amalgamating company. In other words, the assets which have been acquired by the assessee in the scheme of amalgamation would continue at the book value in the books of the amalgamated company. The question arises whether the goodwill shown by the assessee as discussed above was acquired in the scheme of amalgamation from the amalgamating company. The answer stands in negative. It is because there was no entry in the books of accounts of the amalgamating/transferor company reflecting the value of the goodwill. As such, the amount of goodwill as claimed by the assessee represents the difference between the purchase consideration and the NAV acquired by it. The purchase consideration paid by the assessee was based on the valuation report as discussed above after considering the various factors. Thus the assessee has not acquired any goodwill from the amalgamating/transferor company as alleged, accordingly the provisions of the Act i.e. 6 proviso to section 32, explanation 7 to section 43(1), explanation 2 to section 43(6)(c) of the Act cannot be applied to the case on hand.” 24. Therefore, respectfully following the aforesaid decision of the coordinate bench of the Tribunal in Urmin Marketing (P.) Ltd. (supra), we are of the considered view that provisions of the sixth proviso to section 32(1), Explanation 7 to section 43(1) and Explanation 2(b) to section 43(6) of the Act have no applicability to the facts of the present case. 13. Further, in the aforesaid decision, the Coordinate Bench also considered similar reliance placed by the Revenue on the decision of the Coordinate Bench of the Tribunal in United Breweries Ltd.(supra) and observed as follows: – “26. The Revenue, vide its written submissions, has relied upon certain judicial pronouncements, which have been dealt with hereunder: – ……… (e) Lastly, the decision in the case of United Breweries Ltd. v/s Addl. CIT, reported in [2016] 76 taxmann.com 103 (Bang.), relied upon by the lower authorities, the value of goodwill in the books of the amalgamating company was only Rs.7.45 crore which has been shown by the taxpayer at Rs.62.30 crore and accordingly, it was held that the taxpayer has failed to justify the valuation of goodwill at Rs.62.30 crore. However, there is no dispute regarding the value of goodwill in the present case. We find that for a similar reason the coordinate bench of the Tribunal in Aricent Technologies (Holdings) Ltd. v/s DCIT, in ITA No.90/Del/2013 distinguished the aforesaid decision in United Breweries Ltd. (supra). Thus, we are of the considered view that the reliance placed on the aforesaid decision is misplaced.” 14. Further, the Coordinate Bench in the aforesaid decision also rejected the reliance placed on the amendment vide Finance Act, 2021, and held that the said amendment is effective from 01/04/2021 and would accordingly apply to the assessment year 2021-22 and subsequent assessment years. The relevant findings of the Coordinate Bench, in the aforesaid decision, are reproduced as follows: – “27. Further, the reference in the impugned order to the amendment made vide Finance Act, 2021 is also of no help to the Revenue as the said amendment in relation to the allowance of depreciation on goodwill is effective from 01/04/2021 and would accordingly apply to the assessment year 2021-22 and subsequent assessment years. This aspect is evident from page 71 of the Memorandum Explaining the Provisions in the Finance Bill, 2021. Even the decision of the coordinate bench of the Tribunal in I&B Seeds (P) Ltd v/s DCIT, reported in [2022] 142 taxmann.com 274 (Bang-Trib.) held that amendment in section 32(1) by Finance Act, 2021 to the effect that no depreciation was allowable on goodwill would take effect from 01/04/2021 and would be applicable from assessment year 2021-22 and subsequent years.” 15. Therefore, in view of the facts and circumstances of the present case and respectfully following the decision of the Coordinate Bench cited supra, we are of the considered view that the assessee is entitled to claim depreciation on goodwill arising on account of slump sale transaction under section 32 of the Act. Accordingly, the AO is directed to allow the claim of depreciation on goodwill. As a result, the impugned order on this issue is set aside. As a result, Ground No. 4 raised in assessee’s appeal is partly allowed. 16. In view of our aforesaid findings, the remaining grounds raised by the assessee need no separate adjudication. 17. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is partly allowed. Order pronounced in the open court on 30/07/2026 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under ITAT Judgmentssection 143(3)Section 144BSection 250section 32section 37(1)Slump Sale Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,700 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi ITAT Jodhpur Allows 12AB Renewal Despite Earlier Wrong Clause Selection September 8, 2026 ITAT Delhi Allows Full Section 10(10B) Exemption on BSNL VRS Compensation September 8, 2026 GSTAT Kolkata Remands ITC Interest and Penalty Computation Under Section 128A September 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Mining Lease Stamp Duty Is Revenue Expenditure: ITAT Panaji September 8, 2026 FAST-DS 2026: Foreign Bank Account, ESOP & RSU Disclosure Window September 8, 2026 ITAT Mumbai Deletes Section 68 Addition Where Third-Party Material Lacked Transaction Nexus September 8, 2026 ITAT Mumbai Dismisses Revenue Appeal for Want of Territorial Jurisdiction September 8, 2026 ITAT Kolkata: CIT(A) Cannot Remand Assessment Not Made Under Section 144 September 8, 2026 ITAT Kolkata Differs on Section 148 Limitation and Refers Reopening Issue to Third Member September 8, 2026