Summary: An Indian person can own a UAE company without automatically making it an Indian tax resident. The central issue under the Place of Effective Management framework is where the company’s key management and commercial decisions necessary for conducting its business as a whole are, in substance, made. Indian ownership, UAE incorporation, a trade licence, registered address, UAE bank account, UAE-resident directors or formal board meetings do not independently determine POEM. The analysis considers the company’s actual governance and management throughout the relevant tax year, including the location and authority of senior management, board decision-making, banking control, contract approvals, commercial strategy, virtual meetings and the distinction between shareholder oversight and management control. Companies engaged in active business outside India may benefit from the presumption that POEM is outside India where the majority of board meetings are held outside India, subject to the board genuinely exercising its management powers. Other companies are subject to a two-stage analysis identifying who makes the key decisions and where those decisions are actually made. The India–UAE DTAA, transfer pricing, FEMA, permanent establishment, foreign tax credit and UAE Corporate Tax consequences may also require separate consideration. A defensible UAE management position depends on genuine commercial substance and contemporaneous evidence rather than documents created after the event. Indian-owned UAE companies should therefore undertake an annual POEM review and maintain consistent governance, management, operational and tax records. Table of Contents▸ Place of Effective Management for Indian-Owned UAE Companies Statutory Meaning of POEM Why POEM Matters to a UAE Company Indian Ownership Is Not Conclusive Substance Is More Important Than Form POEM Is Determined Every Year Only One POEM at a Particular Point in Time Active Business Outside India Meaning of Passive Income Measuring Active Business Outside India Presumption for an Active Foreign Business Show all 11 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Place of Effective Management for Indian-Owned UAE Companies An Indian entrepreneur may legally own a company in Dubai or another emirate. That ownership, by itself, does not make the UAE company an Indian tax resident. The more important question is where the company is actually managed. This distinction is central to the concept of Place of Effective Management, commonly known as POEM. A UAE company may have a trade licence, registered address, local bank account and UAE-resident director. Yet, if its most important management and commercial decisions are substantively made in India, it may be treated as an Indian tax resident under the applicable Indian income-tax law. POEM risk is particularly relevant where: The UAE company is owned by an Indian resident; The founder divides time between India and the UAE; Senior management operates from India; The UAE company has limited employees or premises; Contracts require approval from an Indian parent or shareholder; Banking authority is exercised from India; or Dubai board meetings merely confirm decisions already made elsewhere. The analysis is not decided by one document or event. It examines how the company is managed throughout the relevant tax year. Statutory Meaning of POEM For tax years beginning on or after 1 April 2026, the corporate residence test is contained in Section 6 of the Income-tax Act, 2025. A company is regarded as resident in India during a tax year if: It is an Indian company; or Its place of effective management is in India during that year. POEM means the place where the key management and commercial decisions necessary for conducting the business of the company as a whole are, in substance, made. The same essential corporate-residence test existed under Section 6(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 for periods governed by that legislation. The Income Tax Department has confirmed that the corporate residence test has not been changed by the Income-tax Act, 2025. For periods beginning before 1 April 2026, the applicable provisions of the 1961 Act continue to govern. The new Act applies to tax years beginning on or after that date. Why POEM Matters to a UAE Company A company incorporated in the UAE is a foreign company from an Indian legal perspective. If its POEM is outside India and it does not otherwise have an Indian taxable presence, India generally cannot treat it as an Indian-resident company merely because its shareholder is Indian. If its POEM is found to be in India, the company may become resident in India for that tax year. This can expose its worldwide income to Indian taxation, subject to the applicable legislation and treaty relief. It may also create obligations involving: Indian income-tax returns; Corporate tax computation; Advance tax; Tax deduction at source; Transfer pricing; Maintenance and audit of accounts; Foreign tax credit; Reporting of overseas assets and income; Treatment of brought-forward losses; Interaction with UAE Corporate Tax; and Reconciliation of different accounting and tax years. POEM can therefore change the tax position of the company as a whole. It is broader than the question of whether a particular payment is taxable in India. Indian Ownership Is Not Conclusive The CBDT’s POEM guidance expressly recognises that complete ownership of a foreign company by an Indian company is not, by itself, conclusive evidence that the foreign company’s POEM is in India. The same practical principle is relevant where a UAE company is owned by an Indian individual. Ownership and management are different concepts. A shareholder may protect an investment and exercise rights reserved to shareholders without necessarily managing the company’s daily or strategic affairs. An Indian owner may legitimately: Appoint or remove directors; Approve amendments to constitutional documents; Decide on the issue of a new class of shares; Approve liquidation; Vote on a sale of substantially all company assets; or Exercise other rights reserved to shareholders. These decisions ordinarily affect the existence, capital or ownership of the company. They are not automatically the key management decisions that determine POEM. The position changes where the shareholder restricts the board’s real authority, directs commercial decisions or effectively runs the UAE company from India. Substance Is More Important Than Form POEM is a substance-over-form test. The legal documents may state that management is vested in a UAE board. The real inquiry is whether that board exercises its authority. Authorities may examine: Who develops the company’s strategy; Who approves major contracts; Who decides pricing; Who approves borrowing and capital expenditure; Who controls banking; Who hires senior management; Who decides entry into new markets; Who assumes or controls business risks; Where these individuals are located; and Whether formal minutes accurately describe the decision-making process. A board resolution prepared and signed in Dubai will carry limited weight if correspondence shows that the decision had already been taken by the Indian shareholder. POEM Is Determined Every Year POEM is not a permanent label attached to a company when it is incorporated. A company’s residence must be determined separately for each tax year. A UAE company can have POEM outside India in one year and potentially have POEM in India in another year if its management arrangements change. For example, risk may change where: The founder returns to India; UAE executives resign; Commercial authority moves to an Indian parent; The company becomes inactive; UAE operations are outsourced; Strategic decisions shift to videoconferences led from India; A major restructuring takes place; or The company begins operating primarily through an Indian team. A historical UAE Tax Residency Certificate does not conclusively settle the company’s residence for every later year. Only One POEM at a Particular Point in Time A company may have several places of management. It may have directors in Dubai, finance staff in India and customers in Europe. However, according to the CBDT guidance, a company can have only one place of effective management at a particular point in time. The task is not simply to count offices or directors. It is to identify the location that plays the most decisive role in managing the company as a whole. Active Business Outside India The CBDT guidance first distinguishes a company engaged in active business outside India from other foreign companies. A company is treated as engaged in active business outside India where: Its passive income is not more than 50% of total income; Less than 50% of its total assets are situated in India; Less than 50% of its employees are situated in India or resident in India; and Payroll expenditure on such employees is less than 50% of total payroll expenditure. All these conditions must be considered. For this purpose, employee numbers generally include the average number at the beginning and end of the year. The guidance also recognises persons who may not be directly employed but perform functions similar to those of employees. Payroll includes salaries, wages, bonuses and other employment compensation, including related pension and social costs borne by the employer. Meaning of Passive Income Passive income is not limited to interest and dividends. Under the CBDT guidance, it broadly includes: Income from transactions where both the purchase and sale of goods are with associated enterprises; Royalty; Dividend; Capital gains; Interest; and Rental income. Interest earned by a regulated banking company or public financial institution in the course of its regulated business is treated differently under the guidance. This definition can affect UAE holding companies, treasury companies, intellectual-property companies and related-party trading entities. A UAE trading company that buys exclusively from one related Indian entity and sells exclusively to another related entity may have passive income for the POEM active-business test, even though its income is described as trading revenue. Measuring Active Business Outside India The active-business test generally uses the average data for the relevant year and the two preceding years. If the company has existed for a shorter period, the data for that shorter period is considered. Where the UAE accounting year differs from the Indian tax year, the corresponding accounting years ending during the relevant Indian period may need to be examined. A new company should not assume that one year of UAE turnover settles the position permanently. Changes in assets, employees, payroll and income composition can alter the test. Presumption for an Active Foreign Business Where a company is engaged in active business outside India, its POEM is presumed to be outside India if the majority of its board meetings are held outside India. For an Indian-owned UAE company, this can be an important protection where: The company has genuine UAE operations; Its employees and assets are mainly outside India; Passive income remains within the specified limit; Most board meetings take place outside India; and The board genuinely makes the company’s strategic decisions. The location of board meetings should be supported by more than the minutes Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under DTAAFEMAPOEM Author Info Name: Mandeep Singh Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: KPM GLOBAL Location: Dubai, Dubai Articles Published: 20 View full profile → More from Mandeep Singh Starting a Dubai Company: Indian Tax Implications Explained September 16, 2026 UAE Company by Indian Resident: FEMA, ODI and LRS Compliance Guide September 15, 2026 Indian Tax Residency After Moving to UAE: Rules, Day Counts & Common Mistakes September 12, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Section 148A(b) Notice Invalid for Lack of Seven Clear Days: ITAT Ranchi September 18, 2026 ITAT Ahmedabad Upholds Section 147 Reopening but Deletes Bogus Loan Addition September 18, 2026 Section 10(26) Exemption Denied for Salary from Home in Shillong: ITAT Guwahati September 18, 2026 ITAT Remands Appeal as CIT(A) Failed to Decide Reopening Grounds September 18, 2026 TNMM Margin Comparison Must Apply Depreciation Consistently, Rules ITAT Kolkata September 18, 2026 Kolkata ITAT Deletes ₹38.95 Lakh Section 69C Additions on Documentary Evidence September 18, 2026