Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14747 Case Name Trimble Information Technologies India Private Limited Vs ITO (ITAT Chennai) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Related Assessment Year 2020-21 Courts All ITAT, ITAT Chennai Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Trimble Information Technologies India Private Limited Vs ITO (ITAT Chennai) Summary: ITAT Chennai deleted a ₹50,78,859 transfer-pricing adjustment made towards interest on outstanding receivables from foreign associated enterprises of Trimble Information Technologies India Private Limited. The assessee, a wholly owned subsidiary of Trimble Inc., USA engaged in software development, application and allied IT-enabled services, had declared income of ₹61.81 crore and benchmarked its international transactions using TNMM and CUP. The TPO treated receivables realised beyond the assumed credit period as interest-free loans and proposed an upward adjustment, which was sustained in principle by the DRP with directions for recalculation. The assessee contended that its contractual credit period with foreign AEs ranged from 30 to 90 days, averaging 50 days, whereas the TPO had incorrectly proceeded on a 30-day period. It also challenged the additional adjustment of 3.5% over LIBOR. The assessee maintained that it did not charge interest from any buyer, was a debt-free company and had already factored receivables into its working-capital adjustment under TNMM. Therefore, a separate adjustment for overdue receivables was unwarranted. The Tribunal rejected the Revenue’s attempt to disturb the contractual credit period. It held that Revenue cannot decide how a taxpayer should conduct its business and that the TPO’s attempt to question commercial expediency was incorrect. Business decisions are fundamentally directed towards maximising profits and cannot be dictated by the tax authorities. The Tribunal also noted authorities holding that the contracted credit period takes precedence and that interest cannot be charged on amounts received within that contractual period. The Bench extensively considered the Chennai Tribunal decisions in Integra Software Services P. Ltd. and Temenos India Pvt. Ltd. In Integra Software Services, the Tribunal had deleted an adjustment where the assessee was a zero-debt entity, did not charge interest from either AEs or non-AEs and did not incur significant interest expenditure. In Temenos India, after considering Kusum Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. and the Bechtel India line of decisions, the Tribunal had held that no TP adjustment for imputed interest on outstanding AE receivables was warranted where the assessee was debt-free. Following the judicial precedents and considering the assessee’s facts, ITAT found no merit in the Revenue’s adjustment. It therefore set aside the orders of the lower authorities and directed the AO to delete the entire addition of ₹50,78,859. All grounds raised by the assessee were allowed. Cases Discussed 1. M/s Integra Software Services P. Ltd. — ITA No. 736/Chny/2017, AY 2012-13 (ITAT Chennai) — Followed. Where the assessee did not charge interest from AEs or non-AEs, was a zero-debt entity and incurred no significant interest expenditure, the Tribunal held that treating receivables as accommodation to AEs was incorrect and deleted the adjustment. 32.1 2. Temenos India Pvt. Ltd. — IT(TP)A No. 32/Chny/2024, AY 2020-21 (ITAT Chennai) — Followed. Held that imputation of interest on outstanding AE receivables was unwarranted in the circumstances considered, particularly where the assessee was debt-free and the impact of receivables had been considered through working-capital adjustment. 32.1 32.1 3. PCIT Vs Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd. — CC No. 4956/2017 (Supreme Court), 21/07/2017 — Relied upon through Temenos India. The Supreme Court dismissed Revenue’s SLP against the Delhi High Court decision concerning adjustment for interest on receivables where the assessee was a debt-free company. 32.1 4. Kusum Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. — ITA No. 765/2016 (Delhi High Court) — Relied upon through Temenos India. Mere inclusion of “receivables” in the Explanation to Section 92B does not automatically characterise every outstanding receivable from a foreign AE as an international transaction; relevant facts and working-capital impact require examination. 32.1 5. Tech Books International Pvt. Ltd. — ITA No. 240/Del/2015, 06/07/2015 (ITAT Delhi) — Relied upon. Cited for the proposition that contractual credit period takes precedence and interest cannot be charged on amounts received within that period. 32.1 6. Outsource Partners International Pvt. Ltd. — IT(TP)A No. 35/2020, 24/06/2022 (ITAT Bangalore) — Relied upon. Cited along with Tech Books International on the primacy of the contracted credit period. 7. Tecnimont Pvt. Ltd. — ITA No. 56/Bom/2016 (Bombay High Court) — Referred to. Cited on application of LIBOR rate to receivables from overseas entities. 8. Verizon Data Services Pvt. Ltd. — ITA No. 3411/Chny/2016 (ITAT Chennai) — Referred to. Cited on benchmarking interest on overseas receivables with reference to LIBOR. FULL TEXT OF THE ORDER OF ITAT CHENNAI This appeal is filed by the assessee against the order bearing DIN & Order No.ITBA/DRP/M/144C(5)/2024-25/1064855886(1) dated 14.05.2024 of the Learned Dispute Resolution Panel-2, Bangalore for the assessment years 2020-21. Through the aforesaid appeal the assesse has challenged order u/s 144C(5) dated 27.05.2024 passed by Ld.AO. 2.0 The Ld. Counsel for the assessee informed that the only issue in the present appeal through its three grounds of appeal is regarding an addition of made by the Ld. AO of Rs.50,78,859/- made by the Ld.AO on account of upward adjustment of outstanding receivables proposed by the Ld. TPO. It was submitted that the appellant assessee is a wholly owned subsidiary of Trimble Inc USA and is primary engaged in the business of Software Development Services, application services and allied internet / IT enabled services. Return of income declaring income of Rs.61.81 Crs. was filed. The appellant had adopted TNMM and CUP as the most appropriate method for its international transactions concluding that the same at ALP. Upon recommendation of the Ld. AO, the Ld. TPO, after considering direction of DRP, proposed an upward adjustment of Rs.50,78,859/-. The Ld. Counsel argued that justifying its upward adjustments the Ld. TPO held the view that trade receivables due from foreign AEs received beyond the credit period allowed assume the character of interest free loans and hence attract a levy of interest. It was submitted that the Ld. DRP had also accorded in principle concurrence to the action of the Ld. TPO albeit with directions to recalculate. 3.0 It is the case of the appellant assessee that the upward adjustments made by the Ld. TPO is totally unwarranted. The appellant has argued that there is no case for tinkering with the credit period given by the assessee to its foreign AEs. It has been submitted that the credit period awarded to the AEs is governed by contracts wherein period of 30 days to 90 days has been awarded leading to an average of 50 days, and not 30 days as erroneously presumed by the Ld. TPO. The Ld. TPO has calculated erroneously average receivable of 47.61 days vide its order dated 15.05.2024. It was submitted that action the Ld. TPO in applying additional adjustments of 3.5% to the LIBOR principle and its, confirmation by the Hon’ble DRP was a matter totally alien to the case. It has been submitted that if the said average of 50 days is taken then there would be no case for any addition. The appellant has also argued that no addition deserves to be made as it is not a case where interest has been charged with other parties and only foreign AEs have been exempted. As a principle the appellant does not charges any interest from its buyers. The Ld. Counsel for the assessee has vehemently argued that the appellant assessee is debt free company and hence there cannot be any scope for making any addition. In support of its contention the Ld. Counsel through its paper book placed reliance upon the financials for the previous year under consideration. It has been urged that the credit limit contracted with the buyers has to be adhered. The Ld. Counsel has also argued that no separate adjustment is warranted in respect of interest on overdue receivables in cases where working capital adjustments have already been made by the assessee. It was argued that it had submitted before the DRP that after making the working capital adjustments, the appellant adjusted margin was within the range and did not require any further adjustments. In support of its contentions the Ld. Counsel placed reliance upon a catena of decisions delivered by the Hon’ble High Courts as well as Hon’ble ITAT including Chennai Benches. The latter passed vide ITA Nos.736/Chny/2017 for Assessment Year: 2012-13 in the case of M/s. Integra Software Services P Ltd and vide IT(TP)A No.: 32/CHNY/2024 for Assessment Year: 2020-21 in the case of Temenos India Pvt. Ltd. 4.0 The Ld. DR has forcefully relied upon the orders of the lower authorities. The main contention of the Revenue is that receivables have been brought within the ambit of the term international transactions through amendment in section 92B to the IT Act vide finance act 2012 and hence the impugned adjustment is statutorily permissible. A presumption was raised by the Ld. DR that interest would have been charged on overdue receivables if the parties were unrelated. It is the case of the Revenue that TPO is well within his powers to question the commercial expediency. The Ld. DR urged that the question of debt free company would have been relevant only if the underlying transaction had domestic component. The Ld. DR has also raised on presumption of potential Revenue loss arguing that had funds been received in time they could have been deployed for potential interest earnings. 5.0 We have heard rival submissions in the light of material available on records. We have noted that the action of the Ld. AO in making the upward adjustment by disturbing the credit period contracted between the assessee and its foreign AEs is not correct. It is a settled principle of law that the Revenue cannot decide as to how business shall be done by a taxpayer. To this extent the arguments of the Ld. DR that the Ld. TPO has powers to question the commercial expediency are incorrect. The decisions of a business are fundamentally guided with the objective of maximizing the profits and cannot be guided by the taxman. 5.1 The Ld. Counsel for the assessee has invited our attention to the decision of Hon’ble Delhi Tribunal in the case of Tech Books International Pvt Ltd vide ITA No.240 of Delhi of 2015 dated 06.07.2015 and of Hon’ble Bangalore Tribunal in the case of Outsource partners International Pvt Ltd vide ITA No. IT(TP)/35/2020 dated 24.06.2022 wherein it has been held that the contracted credit period takes precedence over any other action and that no interest can be charged qua amounts received during the contracted credit. 5.2 We have noted that the Hon’ble Coordinate Bench of this Tribunal vide ITA No. 736/Chny/2017 in the case of M/s. Integra Software Services P Ltd for Assessment Year: 2012-13 has ruled as under:- “….3.1 The assessee had outstanding receivable from its Associated Enterprises (AE). The Ld.TPO held that excessive outstanding receivables have to comply with Transfer Pricing (TP) provisions. The outstanding beyond comparable period was proposed to be treated as separate transaction of interest free advances as per Sec. 92B(1). The maximum credit period was accepted to be 90 days and outstanding receivables beyond that time period were benchmarked at prime lending rate of 14.4%. The same resulted in to an adjustment of Rs.57.14 Lacs. 3.2 Before DRP, the assessee submitted that it did not charge any interest from AE as well as non-AEs. No finance cost was incurred. The delayed realization was beyond the control of the assessee and not to bestow any benefit on the AE. It was also submitted that the assessee was a zero debt company and it did not have any borrowings from external sources and therefore, it was not required to pay any interest. Further, Ld. TPO having chosen TNMM method erred in making further adjustment for interest on overdue receivable since the application of TNMM would take care of the same. Lastly, the assessee advanced loans to its AEs and charged interest at LIBOR and therefore, the same should be applied to benchmark the transactions. 3.3 However, Ld. DRP chose to confirm the approach of Ld. TPO. The only relief granted was on account of applicable rate and Ld. TPO was directed to benchmark the same on the basis of interest rates on short term fixed deposits prevailing at relevant point of time. The said directions reduced the impugned adjustment to Rs.25.11 Lacs. Aggrieved, the assessee is in further appeal before us. 3.4 From the fact, it emerges that the assessee has not charged any interest on outstanding receivables from AEs and non-AEs. Further, the loans advanced to AEs have been benchmarked separately. It also emerges that the assessee is a zero-debt entity and do not incur significant interest expenditure. Therefore, to allege that the assessee accommodated its AEs in the guise of receivables would not be a correct proposition. Therefore, this addition is not sustainable. We order so. The corresponding grounds raised by the assessee stand allowed…”. 5.3 Further, on the impugned issue the Hon’ble Coordinate Bench of this Tribunal in its latest decision in the case of Temenos India Pvt. Ltd for Assessment Year: 2020-21 vide IT(TP)A No.: 32/CHNY/2024 has ruled as under:- “….8. The ld.AR’s first contention was that the assessee company being a debt free company, no adjustment is warranted as interest imputation on outstanding trade receivables from its AE’s. In this context, the ld.AR relied on the Hon’ble Supreme Court judgment in the case of PCIT vs. Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., in CC No.4956/2017/SC (judgment dated 21.07.2017). The second contention of the ld.AR was that the TPO / DRP ought to have granted working capital adjustment and factoring the impact of receivables on working capital, no separate adjustment is required on trade receivables. In this context, the ld.AR placed reliance on the following judicial pronouncements:- i) Kusum Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., in ITA 765/2016 (Delhi HC) ii) Doosan Power Systems India Pvt. Ltd., in ITA No.2/CHNY/2020 (Chennai Bench, ITAT) iii) Infac India P. Ltd., in IT(TP)A No.27/CHNY/2018 (Chennai Bench, ITAT) iv) CMA CGM Shared Service Centre (India) Pvt. Ltd., in IT(TP)A No.76/CHNY/2018 (Chennai Bench, ITAT) v) Foxteq Services India in ITA No.174/Mds/2016 (Chennai Bench, ITAT) 9. Lastly, it was contended that the credit period of 30 days given by the TPO is adhoc, arbitrary and completely ignore the credit period as per inter-company agreement of 180 days, the credit period that is given to the comparable companies and various judicial pronouncements allowing credit period of 90 to 120 days. 10. The ld.DR supported the orders of the TPO and the DRP. 11. We have heard rival submissions and perused the material on record. The Hon’ble Delhi High Court in the case of Kusum Healthcare Pvt.Ltd., (supra) had categorically held that inclusion in the Explanation to Section 92B of the Act by the Finance Act, 2012 in regard to expression ‘receivables’ does not mean that de hors the context every item of ‘receivables’ appearing in the accounts of an entity, which may have dealings with foreign AEs would automatically be characterized as an international transaction. The Hon’ble High Court held that there may be delay in collection of monies for supplies made, even beyond the agreed period, due to a variety of factors which will have to be investigated on case to case basis and the impact of this would have on the working capital of the assessee will have to be studied and enquired properly by the AO for analyzing the statistics over a period of time to find out the pattern which would indicate that viz-a-viz the receivables for the supplies made to its AE, the arrangement reflects an international transaction intended to benefit the AE in some way. Further, the Hon’ble High Court held that when the assessee having already factored in the impact of receivables on the working capital and thereby on its profitability viz-a-vis with that of its comparables, any further adjustment, only on the basis of outstanding receivables would have distorted the picture. Hence, it was held that it is not permissible. In this instant case before us also, the TPO has not carried out basic exercise or any analysis on the facts of the case or the factors mentioned by the Hon’ble Delhi High Court. The TPO has not carried out any exercise of statistics and the pattern which would indicate that the receivables from supplies will benefit the AEs in some way. 12. Most importantly, we find that the assessee is a debt free company. In other words, outstanding receivables will not impact the profitability of the company because the assessee is having largely its own funds and there is no debt secured by assessee on which interest is to be paid by the assessee. Hence, the delayed receivables will not impact in any way. The Co-ordinate Bench of Chennai, ITAT in the case of Integra Software Services Pvt. Ltd., in ITA No.736/CHNY/2017 (order dated 21.10.2022) has considered the issue of zero debt entity and finally deleted the addition by observing in para 3.4 as under:- 3.4 From the fact, it emerges that the assessee has not charged any interest on outstanding receivables from AEs and non-AEs. Further, the loans advanced to AEs have been benchmarked separately. It also emerges that the assessee is a zero-debt entity and do not incur significant interest expenditure. Therefore, to allege that the assessee accommodated its AEs in the guise of receivables would not be a correct proposition. Therefore, this addition is not sustainable. We order so. The corresponding grounds raised by the assessee stand allowed. 13. Before concluding it is to be mentioned that DRP had relied on the Delhi Bench of the ITAT order in the case of Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., in ITA No.6530/Del/2016, dated 16.05.2017, (Assessment Year 2012-13). This order of the Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., for AY 2012-13, had distinguished the Delhi Bench order in the same assessee’s case concerning assessment year 2010-11. The Delhi Bench order in the case of Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., for assessment year 2010-11 in ITA No.1478/Del/2015 (order dated 21.12.2015) had deleted the interest on delayed receivables citing that assessee was a debt free company and no interest was paid even on delayed payables. The above order of the Tribunal for assessment year 2010-11 concerning Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., was confirmed by the Hon’ble Delhi High Court in ITA No.379/2016 (judgment dated 21.07.2016). The Delhi High Court judgment was confirmed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in CC No. 4956/2017 (judgment dated 21.07.2017). The Supreme Court dismissed the Revenue’s SLP and upheld the Hon’ble Delhi High Court judgment. The Tribunal in the case of Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., concerning assessment year 2012-13 (relied on by the DRP) had not taken note of the Delhi High Court concerning AY 2010-11. The Hon’ble Supreme Court judgment concerning AY 2010-11 was rendered on 21.07.2017 i.e., after order of ITAT for AY 2012-13. 14. For the subsequent assessment year namely AY 2013-14, (post the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court judgment and the Hon’ble Delhi High Court judgment in the case of Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., concerning AY 2010-11) the Delhi Bench of ITAT in ITA No.7234/Del/2017 (order dated 18.12.2020) had discussed the conflicted saga of Bechtel cases concerning Assessment Year 201011 and 2012-13 and held that the Hon’ble Supreme Court judgment in Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., for the assessment year 2010-11 (supra) had settled the law and there cannot be any interest imputed on outstanding receivables when assessee in the said case was a debt free company. The relevant facts, contentions raised by both the sides and the finding of the Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., for assessment year 2013-14 (supra), reads as follows:- 11. The ground No. 5 of the appeal relates to transfer pricing adjustment for interest on receivables. 11.1 The facts qua the issue in dispute are that in view of payments against invoices raised by the assessee to associated enterprises were received with the delay more than industry standard. The Learned TPO proposed a separate transfer pricing adjustment re-characterizing the outstanding receivables as unsecured loans. He applied CUP method for benchmarking the transaction of interest on receivables and using SBI prime lending rate, computed adjustment for interest on receivables amounting to ₹ 1,30,78,181/-. On the objections of the assessee, the Learned DRP noted that in assessment year 2010-11, the Tribunal following the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Kusum Healthcare Private Limited (reported in TS129-ITAT 2015(Del)-TP) held that no separate adjustment for interest on receivable was warranted when working capital adjustment was already granted to the assessee. The Learned DRP further noted that Hon’ble Delhi High Court in the assessee own case (ITA No.379/2016) for assessment year 2010-11 vide order dated 21/07/2016 upheld the order of the Tribunal holding that the assessee is a debt free company and the question of receiving any interest on receivable did not arise. The Learned DRP thereafter noted that the Tribunal in assessment year 2012-13 in order dated 16/05/2017 relying on the decision of the Tribunal in the case of ‘Ameriprise India P Ltd.’, 2015-TII-347-ITAT-Del-TP held that when the export proceeds are realized within the year, but beyond the stipulated period of the agreement, then same will not come within the working capital adjustment and rejected the contention of the assessee that interest on delayed payment of receivable get subsumed in the working capital adjustment allowed to the assessee. The Tribunal in AY 2012-13 held that interest on delayed realization of receivables is a separate international transaction and therefore require benchmarking. The Tribunal applying interest rate of six months LIBOR +400 basis point on receivables, upheld the transfer pricing adjustment of interest on receivables accordingly. In view of the finding of the Tribunal in assessment year 2012-13, the Learned DRP in the year under consideration directed the Learned TPO to compute the adjustment using the interest rate of six month of LIBOR +400 basis point. 11.2 Before us, the Learned Counsel of the assessee has repeated the historical background of the issue in dispute and submitted that special leave petition filed by the Revenue against the order of the Hon’ble High Court for assessment year 2010-11 has been rejected by the Hon’ble Supreme Court on 21/07/2017, which is after the order of the Tribunal for AY 2012-13 dated 16/05/2017 and therefore decision of the Tribunal in assessment year 201213 need not be followed. 11.3 The Learned DR, on the other hand, submitted that the Tribunal in assessment year 2012-13 noted the decision of the Hon’ble High Court in assessment year 2010-11 and after taking into consideration the Explanation inserted by way of the Finance Act, 2012 to section 92B with retrospective effect from 01/04/2002, held that any delay in realization of debt arising during the course of the business is liable to be visited with TP adjustment on account of interest income short charged or uncharged. In view of the learned DR, the Learned DRP is justified in following the order of the Tribunal in assessment year 2012-13. 11.4 We have heard rival submission of the parties on the issue in dispute and relevant material on record including the decisions cited by the Learned Counsel of the assessee as well as by the Learned DR. In the instant case, the Learned DRP has noted the decisions of the Tribunal and High Court in the earlier years. In assessment year 2010-11 the Tribunal in ITA No.1478/Del/2015 placed reliance on the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Kusum Healthcare Private Limited (supra) and held that impact of credit period was duly factored in working capital adjustment allowed while determining the arm’s-length price and, therefore, no separate adjustment for interest on receivables was warranted in the hands of the tested party. The relevant extract of the decision of the Tribunal is reproduced as under: “15.1 It is brought to our notice that the assessee is a debt free company. In such circumstances it is not justifiable to presume that, borrowed funds have been utilized to pass on the facility to its AE’s. The revenue has also not brought on record that the assessee has been found paying interest to its creditors or suppliers on delayed payments. 16. In lieu of the discussions and the ratio laid down in the case of Kusum Healthcare Pvt. Ltd., we direct that no separate adjustment for interest on receivables are warranted in the hands of the assessee. Grounds no. 3 of the assessee’s appeal is there by allowed.” 11.5 On appeal by the Revenue, against the above order of the Tribunal, the Hon’ble Delhi High Court (ITA No. 379/2016) in order dated 21/07/2016 dismissed the appeal observing as under: “4. As far as question (B) concerning the adjustment for interst no receivables, the Court finds that the ITAT has returned a detailed finding of fact that the Assessee is a debt free company and the question of receiving any interest on receivables did not arise. Consequently, no substantial question of law arises for consideration as far as this issue is concerned.” 11.6 The assessee brought the decision of the Hon’ble High Court in assessment year 2010-11, before the Tribunal in assessment year 2012-13 by way of raising ground No. 1.5 of the appeal, however, the Tribunal after considering the amendment brought into Act by way of Finance Act, 2012 and other decisions held that interest on delayed realization of receivable is a separate international transaction, which requires separate benchmarking. The finding of the Tribunal in assessment year 2012-13 is reproduced as under: “17. We have considered the submissions of both the parties and perused the record of the case. The assessee’s grievance is two-fold. Firstly, when working capital adjustment has been made, then, no separate adjustment is required to be made in respect of accounts receivables because the same gets subsumed in the working capital adjustment. The second plea of the assessee is that since its funds are entirely debt free, therefore, no adjustment is warranted in regard to late realisation of proceedings from receivables. The assessee’s reliance as noted earlier, is on the decisions in its own cases for assessment year 2010-11 and 2011-12. The issue has been elaborately considered in the case of Ameriprise India Pvt. Ltd. (supra) and, again, in the case of Mckinsey Knowledge Centre Pvt. Ltd. (supra). In the case of Techbooks India International Pvt. Ltd. vs. DCIT (supra), taking note of the Explanation inserted by the Finance Act, 2012 to Section 92B, it was observed that there remained no doubt that apart from any short-term or long-term borrowing, etc., or even advance payments or deferred payments, ‘any other debt arising during the course of business’ had also been expressly recognized as an international transaction. In the said decision, the decision of the Hon’ble Bombay High Court in the case of CIT vs. Patni Computer Systems was also considered, wherein Hon’ble Bombay High Court set aside the view taken by the Tribunal in view of amendment to section 92B. The decision in the case of Kusum Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. was duly considered in the case of Ameriprise India Pvt. Ltd. and it was observed from para 20 to 23 as under:- The ld. AR supported the impugned order by relying on a Tribunal order dated 31.3.2015 passed in Kusum Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. vs. ACIT (ITA No.6814/Del/2014) in which it has been held that no additional imputation of interest on the outstanding receivables is warranted if the pricing/profitability is more than the working capital adjusted margin of the comparables. In the opposition, the ld.DR relied on a later order dated 6.7.2015 passed by the Tribunal in the case of Techbooks International Pvt. Ltd. (supra), in which the transfer pricing adjustment on account of the delayed realization of invoices from AEs has been upheld. The ld. DR contended that the order in the case of Kusum Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. (supra), has been passed without considering the amendment to section 92B carried out by the Finance Act, 2012 with retrospective effect from 1.4.2002, which has been duly taken into account by the Tribunal in its later order in Techbooks International Pvt. Ltd. (supra). 21. After considering the rival submissions and perusing the relevant material on record, it is noticed as highlighted above, that the assessee argued before the TPO that interest on receivables is not an international transaction. At this stage, it would be apposite to note that the Finance Act, 2012 has inserted Explanation to section 92B with retrospective effect from 1.4.2002. Clause (i) of this Explanation, which is otherwise also for removal of doubts, gives meaning to the expression ‘international transaction’ in an inclusive manner. Sub-clause (c) of clause (i) of this Explanation, which is relevant for our purpose, provides as under:- Explanation.–For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that– (i) the expression “international transaction” shall include– (a) ………… (b) ……….. (c) capital financing, including any type of long-term or short-term borrowing, lending or guarantee, purchase or sale of marketable securities or any type of advance, payments or deferred payment or receivable or any other debt arising during the course of business;” 11.7 But before us the Learned Counsel of the assessee has referred to the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court dated 21/07/2017, which is after the decision of the Tribunal in assessment year 2012-13. The Hon’ble Supreme Court has held as under: “Delay condoned. We are in agreement with the High Court that as far as Question-B concerning adjustment for interest on receivables is concerned the Tribunal has returned a finding of fact. Consequently, no substantial question of law therefore, rises, on the facts of this case. The special leave petition is dismissed.” 11.8 In view of the order of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, which is subsequent to the order of the Tribunal in assessment year 2012-13, we direct the Ld. AO/TPO to delete the transfer pricing adjustment on account of the interest receivables. The ground No. 5 of the appeal of the assessee is accordingly allowed. 15. From the above order of the Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in the case of Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., concerning AY 2013-14, we find that ITAT has taken note of the judgments of the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, Hon’ble Supreme Court concerning AY 2010-11 and also co-ordinate bench order of the Tribunal for assessment year 2012-13. After taking note of above judicial pronouncements, the ITAT had deviated from its earlier order for AY 2012-13 and followed the judgment of Hon’ble Delhi High Court and Hon’ble Supreme Court concerning AY 2010-11. The Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., for the assessment year 2013-14 had categorically held that there need not be any transfer pricing adjustment for imputing interest cost for the outstanding trade receivables from AEs when the assessee in the said case is a debt free company. Therefore, the DRP’s reliance on the order of Delhi Bench of the Tribunal in Bechtel India Pvt. Ltd., concerning assessment year 2012-13 (which according to us has not laid down a correct proposition of law) is legally not tenable. In light of the above, we delete the transfer pricing adjustment imputing interest income on the outstanding trade receivables. In the result, the Ground No.2 (f) is allowed. Since we have deleted the TP adjustment of Rs.3,14,15,287/-, Ground No. 2 and its other sub-grounds are not adjudicated. It is ordered accordingly….” 5.4 In the cases of Tecnimont Pvt Ltd (ITA 56/Bom/2016) Hon’ble Bombay High Court and this Hon’ble Tribunal in the case of Verizon Data Services Pvt Ltd (ITA 3411/Chny/2016) and Plintron Global Technologies Solutions have held that receivables from overseas entities, have to be only charged to interest as per LIBOR rate. Consequently, the appellant assessee has assailed the additional adjustments of 3.5% to the LIBOR rate made by the Ld. AO. 6.0 We are therefore of the considered view that considering the facts the appellant assessee, as well as in respectful compliance to the decisions of Hon’ble High Courts and Coordinate Benches of the Tribunal including this tribunal, there is no merit in the action of the Revenue in making the impugned addition by way of adjustment proposed by the Ld.TPO. Accordingly, we set aside the order of the lower authorities and direct the Ld.AO to delete the addition of Rs.50,78,859/-. Therefore, all the grounds of appeal raised by the assessee are allowed. 7.0 In the result, the grounds of appeal raised by the assessee is allowed. Order pronounced on 14th, February-2025 at Chennai. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under ITAT JudgmentsTransfer Pricing Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,048 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Wrong Clause in Form 10AB Cannot Defeat Section 12AB Registration: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 UP GST Cannot Detain Goods Merely Passing Through State: Allahabad HC October 6, 2026 GST Portal Order Without Visible Digital Signature Is Valid: Gujarat HC October 6, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Wrong Clause in Form 10AB Cannot Defeat Section 12AB Registration: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Two-Minute Delay in Filing Income Tax Return Due to Technical Glitch Condoned: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Interest on Borrowings for Real Estate Stock-in-Trade Deductible u/s 36(1)(iii): ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 90-Year Leasehold Rights Are Capital Asset and Eligible for FMV Benefit: ITAT Delhi October 6, 2026 Government Special Package to Workmen Exempt u/s 10(10B); No TDS on Compensation: Madras HC October 5, 2026 Section 234E Late Fee Applies Even Before June 2015: Madras HC October 5, 2026