Summary: The legal position on whether Input Tax Credit (ITC) omitted from GSTR-3B can subsequently be claimed through GSTR-9 depends critically on the distinction between substantive eligibility, actual availment, reporting errors, rectification and reconciliation. Section 16 governs eligibility and imposes statutory conditions and time limits, while GSTR-3B, as the return under section 39, ordinarily constitutes the mechanism through which ITC is taken and reflected in the electronic credit ledger. GSTR-9, by contrast, is the annual return under section 44 and performs a consolidating, reporting and reconciliatory function. The High Courts have increasingly held that GSTR-9 cannot be mechanically ignored where a taxpayer produces evidence such as invoices, receipt of goods or services, GSTR-2A/GSTR-2B, books of account and other supporting records. Sri Shanmuga Hardwares, Pioneer Cooperative Car Parking and Laxmi Ghosh support examination and reconsideration of omitted-credit claims, but do not conclusively establish GSTR-9 as a universal substitute for GSTR-3B. Ambika Trading was expressly confined to its peculiar facts. Biocon and Periyasamy Karthikeyan concern stronger cases involving ITC already availed in GSTR-3B but reported under a wrong table or tax head. The retrospective section 16(5) relief for FYs 2017-18 to 2020-21 also specifically refers to taking ITC in a return under section 39. Accordingly, GSTR-9 is important statutory evidence, but first-time availment through GSTR-9 after expiry of the statutory period remains legally vulnerable. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Can ITC omitted from GSTR-3B be validly claimed or availed through GSTR-9? 1. The Core Legal Issue 2. Section 16 — Source of Entitlement Was the ITC otherwise legally eligible? 3. Section 16(4) — The Time Limit When Is ITC Considered Taken? 4. GSTR-3B and the Electronic Credit Ledger 5. Nature of GSTR-9 6. Section 16(5) — A Significant Legislative Development 7. Sri Shanmuga Hardwares Electricals v. State Tax Officer, W.P. Nos.3804, 3808 & 3813 of 2024, decided on 20.02.2024 (Mad.) 8. Ambika Trading Company prop Ankit Kumar Agarwal, Proprietor of Ambika Trading Company v. Assistant Commissioner of State Tax, Taltala Charge & Ors., M.A.T. 939 of 2024, decided on 21.05.2024 (Cal.) 9. Pioneer Cooperative Car Parking Servicing and Construction Society Ltd. v. State of West Bengal & Anr., (2025) 27 Centax 70 (Cal.); MAT 1983 of 2023, decided on 21.01.2025 10. Laxmi Ghosh v. State of West Bengal & Ors., W.P.A. 20364 of 2025, decided on 24.11.2025 (Cal.) 11. Biocon Limited v. State of Karnataka & Ors., 2026:KHC:24626; W.P. No.11918 of 2024 (T-RES), decided on 30.04.2026 (Kar.) 12. Periyasamy Karthikeyan v. The State Tax Officer, Karur-4 Assessment Circle, Karur, W.P.(MD) No.3049 of 2025, decided on 06.01.2026 (Mad.) 13. Comparative Case-Law Position 14. Taxpayer’s Interpretation of the Law 15. Revenue’s Interpretation 16. Claim, Disclosure and Availment Must Be Distinguished 17. Rectification of Existing ITC Versus Creation of Fresh ITC 18. Can GSTR-9 Be Ignored? 19. Practical Decision Matrix Situation 1 — ITC already in GSTR-3B, but wrong table Situation 2 — ITC taken under wrong tax head Situation 3 — ITC omitted in one or more GSTR-3B returns but contemporaneously disclosed in GSTR-9 and supported by documents Situation 4 — ITC never claimed in any GSTR-3B and shown for the first time in GSTR-9 20. Litigation Strategy 21. Effect of Section 16(5) on Pending Disputes Emerging Legal Position Conclusion Show all 31 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Input Tax Credit (“ITC”) is one of the foundational features of the Goods and Services Tax regime. GST is intended to operate as a value-added tax, and the availability of credit for tax paid at the preceding stage is central to avoiding cascading taxation. At the same time, ITC under GST is not an unrestricted benefit. It is governed by statutory conditions, documentary requirements, return-filing mechanisms and time limits. One recurring controversy has arisen in cases where a taxpayer was otherwise eligible for ITC, the relevant tax invoices existed, the inward supplies were received and the credit was reflected in GSTR-2A or otherwise supported by the books and documents, but the taxpayer failed to claim the ITC in FORM GSTR-3B. The amount was subsequently disclosed in FORM GSTR-9. This gives rise to an important legal question: Can ITC omitted from GSTR-3B be validly claimed or availed through GSTR-9? The issue has reached several High Courts. Some judgments have granted relief to taxpayers, but the exact nature of that relief must be appreciated carefully. In a number of cases, the Courts did not finally hold that GSTR-9 itself is a legally recognised mode of availing ITC. Instead, they held that the department could not mechanically ignore the annual return and directed reconsideration of the taxpayer’s claim. Recent decisions have also considered a different category of cases where ITC was already taken in GSTR-3B but reported under the wrong tax head or wrong table and was later correctly reconciled in GSTR-9 or GSTR-9C. Therefore, the controversy cannot be resolved by a broad statement that “ITC can be claimed through GSTR-9” or that “ITC not claimed in GSTR-3B is always lost.” The actual legal position depends upon the distinction between substantive entitlement, actual availment, reporting error, rectification and reconciliation. 1. The Core Legal Issue The controversy may be stated in one sentence: Where eligible ITC was not taken in GSTR-3B within the prescribed period but was later disclosed in GSTR-9, does such disclosure constitute valid availment of ITC? The factual position may fall into different categories. Situation GSTR-3B position GSTR-9 position Relative legal strength ITC correctly availed Correctly reflected Merely reconciled Very strong ITC availed under wrong head/table Credit already taken Corrected/reconciled Strong Part of ITC availed, balance omitted Partial claim Omitted credit disclosed Arguable No ITC availed at all Nil/omitted First-time disclosure Most vulnerable This distinction is fundamental. A case where credit has already entered the electronic credit ledger but was classified under the wrong table is materially different from a case where the credit never entered the ledger at all and is sought to be asserted for the first time through the annual return. 2. Section 16 — Source of Entitlement Section 16(1) of the CGST Act provides the basic entitlement to ITC. A registered person is entitled, subject to conditions and restrictions, to take credit of input tax charged on supplies used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of business. Section 16(2) lays down important substantive conditions. Broadly, the taxpayer must possess the prescribed tax invoice or document, must have received the goods or services, and must satisfy the other statutory requirements. Therefore, the first question in every dispute must be: Was the ITC otherwise legally eligible? If the answer is no, neither GSTR-3B nor GSTR-9 can create eligibility. The present controversy concerns only those cases where the taxpayer claims that the underlying ITC was genuine and admissible but the reporting or availment mechanism was defective. This distinction between eligibility and availment becomes important because the GST law does not necessarily treat the existence of an eligible invoice as equivalent to actual availment of ITC. 3. Section 16(4) — The Time Limit Section 16(4) imposes an outer time limit for taking ITC. Under the current framework, ITC in respect of an invoice or debit note ordinarily cannot be taken after 30 November following the end of the relevant financial year or furnishing of the annual return, whichever is earlier. The presence of such a time limitation means that ITC is not merely an accounting entry which can be claimed at any later point when discovered. The statutory language uses the expression “take input tax credit.” The controversy therefore requires an answer to a further question: When is ITC legally “taken”? When Is ITC Considered Taken? Is it when the taxpayer records the invoice in its books? Is it when the invoice appears in GSTR-2A or GSTR-2B? Is it when the amount is reflected in GSTR-9? Or is ITC taken only when it is declared in the section 39 return and enters the electronic credit ledger? The statutory structure strongly supports the last of these propositions. 4. GSTR-3B and the Electronic Credit Ledger Under the GST return mechanism, GSTR-3B is the return prescribed under section 39. The statutory material recognises that ITC is availed through self-declaration in FORM GSTR-3B and, as a consequence, is reflected in the electronic credit ledger. This gives the Revenue a significant argument. The sequence under the statutory scheme is broadly: Eligible inward supply ↓ ITC claimed in GSTR-3B ↓ Credit enters electronic credit ledger ↓ Credit becomes available for utilisation This makes GSTR-3B more than a mere reporting document. It forms part of the operational mechanism through which ITC is actually made available to the taxpayer. Hence, if a credit was never declared in GSTR-3B, one may legitimately ask whether it was ever “availed” in the statutory sense. 5. Nature of GSTR-9 GSTR-9 stands on a different footing. Section 44 provides for the annual return. Rule 80 prescribes FORM GSTR-9 for this purpose. The annual return consolidates and reconciles the financial year’s GST data. It reflects, among other things, outward supplies, taxes paid and ITC-related particulars. However, conceptually: GSTR-3B is the periodic return through which ITC is ordinarily taken. Whereas: GSTR-9 is an annual return performing a consolidating, reporting and reconciliatory function. This is the central statutory difficulty faced by taxpayers who attempt to claim credit for the first time through GSTR-9. The annual-return material itself recognises that ITC cannot ordinarily be freshly claimed through GSTR-9. Therefore, on a strict statutory construction, GSTR-9 is not the normal substitute for GSTR-3B. 6. Section 16(5) — A Significant Legislative Development The Finance (No. 2) Act, 2024 retrospectively inserted section 16(5). The provision gives relaxation in respect of invoices or debit notes pertaining to FYs: 2017-18; 2018-19; 2019-20; and 2020-21. For these years, ITC may be taken in a return under section 39 filed up to 30 November 2021. This provision is important in two ways. First, it grants substantial retrospective relief to taxpayers who had filed GSTR-3B belatedly. Second, and more importantly for the present controversy, Parliament specifically used the words: “in any return under section 39.” It did not refer to the annual return under section 44. This gives strong support to the proposition that the legally recognised vehicle for taking ITC remains the section 39 return. Accordingly, in disputes concerning FYs 2017-18 to 2020-21, the first factual inquiry should now be: Was the disputed ITC actually taken in any GSTR-3B filed on or before 30 November 2021? If yes, section 16(5) may substantially resolve the limitation issue. If no, and the credit appears only in GSTR-9, the taxpayer’s case becomes more difficult. 7. Sri Shanmuga Hardwares Electricals v. State Tax Officer, W.P. Nos.3804, 3808 & 3813 of 2024, decided on 20.02.2024 (Mad.) The Madras High Court decision in Sri Shanmuga Hardwares Electricals is one of the most significant taxpayer-favourable judgments on this issue. The taxpayer had filed nil or incorrect GSTR-3B returns. However, the eligible ITC was stated to be reflected in GSTR-2A and was subsequently disclosed in GSTR-9. The department rejected the claim because the credit had not been claimed in GSTR-3B. The High Court held that the assessing officer should not have rejected the ITC claim solely on that ground. Where a taxpayer asserts entitlement on the basis of GSTR-2A, GSTR-9 and other documents, the officer is required to examine the validity of the claim. The assessment orders were quashed and the matters remanded. The importance of the decision lies in the principle that: Absence of ITC from GSTR-3B cannot automatically end the inquiry where the taxpayer produces other statutory records supporting the claim. However, the judgment must not be overstated. The High Court did not conclusively declare that GSTR-9 is itself a valid statutory mode of availing ITC. It directed reconsideration. This is a critical distinction between requiring examination of the claim and finally recognising GSTR-9 as a substitute for GSTR-3B. 8. Ambika Trading Company prop Ankit Kumar Agarwal, Proprietor of Ambika Trading Company v. Assistant Commissioner of State Tax, Taltala Charge & Ors., M.A.T. 939 of 2024, decided on 21.05.2024 (Cal.) The Calcutta High Court considered a similar issue in Ambika Trading Company. The taxpayer had omitted Compensation Cess liability as well as corresponding input Compensation Cess from GSTR-3B. During preparation of GSTR-9, the omission was discovered and the relevant amounts were disclosed in the annual return. The Court considered the annual return and the taxpayer’s plea of revenue neutrality and remanded the matter for fresh examination. The decision is favourable in the sense that the Court did not allow GSTR-9 to be ignored merely because the periodic return had contained an error. However, one important feature of Ambika Trading is often omitted in discussions. The Court expressly stated that its decision was based upon the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case and should not be treated as a precedent. Therefore, Ambika Trading should be relied upon with care. It supports a factual and equitable approach but does not establish a universal rule that all ITC disclosed in GSTR-9 must be allowed. 9. Pioneer Cooperative Car Parking Servicing and Construction Society Ltd. v. State of West Bengal & Anr., (2025) 27 Centax 70 (Cal.); MAT 1983 of 2023, decided on 21.01.2025 The Calcutta High Court decision in Pioneer Cooperative Car Parking materially strengthened the taxpayer’s position. The Court examined the earlier decisions and observed that the adjudicating authority could not simply ignore the effect of GSTR-9 and the particulars furnished therein. The matter was remitted for reconsideration. Pioneer is significant because it recognises the statutory importance of the annual return. If GSTR-9 is a return prescribed by law, its contents cannot be treated as legally meaningless. However, even Pioneer does not necessarily establish that GSTR-9 itself credits the electronic credit ledger or automatically amounts to valid availment of ITC. The better reading of Pioneer is: GSTR-9 is relevant statutory evidence and must be considered while adjudicating an ITC dispute. That is different from saying: GSTR-9 independently creates ITC. This distinction should remain central in litigation. 10. Laxmi Ghosh v. State of West Bengal & Ors., W.P.A. 20364 of 2025, decided on 24.11.2025 (Cal.) In Laxmi Ghosh, the taxpayer had omitted certain IGST ITC from GSTR-3B and later disclosed it in GSTR-9. The appellate authority rejected the claim. The Calcutta High Court relied upon the principles emerging from Pioneer and held that the effect of GSTR-9 had not been properly considered. The appellate order was set aside and the matter remanded. Importantly, the High Court clarified that it was not deciding the taxpayer’s substantive entitlement on merits. This again demonstrates the emerging judicial pattern. The High Courts are increasingly unwilling to permit the department to reject claims mechanically merely because GSTR-3B did not contain the credit. At the same time, they are generally stopping short of declaring that GSTR-9 automatically constitutes valid availment. 11. Biocon Limited v. State of Karnataka & Ors., 2026:KHC:24626; W.P. No.11918 of 2024 (T-RES), decided on 30.04.2026 (Kar.) The Karnataka High Court’s 2026 decision in Biocon Limited is an important taxpayer-favourable judgment but belongs to a different category. The department alleged excess ITC based upon comparison of GSTR-3B with GSTR-2A. Biocon explained that ITC relating to imports and SEZ procurements had already been reflected in GSTR-3B, but under the wrong table, namely “All Other ITC”, rather than the appropriate category. The figures were subsequently correctly reflected and reconciled in GSTR-9. The High Court accepted the taxpayer’s explanation and set aside a substantial ITC demand. This decision is highly significant, but it should not be described as a case where ITC was “first claimed in GSTR-9”. The credit had substantially already been taken in GSTR-3B. The issue concerned the manner of reporting and reconciliation. Thus: Biocon is primarily a wrong-table or classification case, not a complete non-availment case. This distinction materially strengthens the taxpayer’s position because the credit had already entered the GST return mechanism. 12. Periyasamy Karthikeyan v. The State Tax Officer, Karur-4 Assessment Circle, Karur, W.P.(MD) No.3049 of 2025, decided on 06.01.2026 (Mad.) The Madras High Court’s decision in Periyasamy Karthikeyan also involved a classification error rather than complete omission. The taxpayer had claimed ITC under CGST and SGST instead of IGST. The error was subsequently reflected and corrected through GSTR-9 and GSTR-9C. The Court granted relief. Again, the important feature is that the ITC had already been claimed in GSTR-3B. The dispute was about the wrong tax head. Therefore, this case provides strong support for the proposition that genuine reporting or classification errors can be corrected and should not result in denial of substantive credit. But it does not necessarily answer the harder question of ITC never claimed in any GSTR-3B. 13. Comparative Case-Law Position Case Nature of mistake Status of ITC in GSTR-3B Court’s approach Sri Shanmuga Hardwares ITC omitted Not claimed Remand for verification Ambika Trading Cess omitted Not properly reflected Remand; not precedent Pioneer Cooperative ITC omitted Not reflected GSTR-9 must be considered Laxmi Ghosh IGST omitted Not claimed for relevant period Remand; merits open Periyasamy Karthikeyan Wrong tax head Already claimed Relief granted Biocon Ltd. Wrong table/classification Already availed Demand set aside The judicial position therefore becomes clearer when cases are classified factually rather than cited collectively. 14. Taxpayer’s Interpretation of the Law A taxpayer may argue that ITC is a substantive benefit. Where all the conditions of section 16(2) are satisfied, the credit should not be denied merely because of an inadvertent mistake in the return. The taxpayer may rely upon the following factors: valid tax invoices; receipt of goods or services; reflection in GSTR-2A/GSTR-2B; payment of tax by the supplier, where relevant; recording in books of account; disclosure in GSTR-9; absence of double credit; absence of fraud; revenue neutrality; and voluntary disclosure of the mistake. The annual return is itself a statutory return. It cannot be dismissed as a private reconciliation statement with no legal relevance. This is substantially the philosophy reflected in Sri Shanmuga, Pioneer and the subsequent Calcutta decisions. The taxpayer may therefore contend that procedural defects should not destroy genuine substantive entitlement where the transaction is fully established. 15. Revenue’s Interpretation The department has an equally substantial statutory argument. The Revenue may contend that: 1. entitlement and availment are distinct; 2. section 16(4) places an express time limit on taking ITC; 3. the statutory return for the relevant purpose is the return under section 39; 4. GSTR-3B is the prescribed section 39 return; 5. ITC enters the electronic credit ledger through such return; 6. GSTR-9 is an annual return under section 44; 7. an annual return does not substitute the periodic return; 8. GSTR-9 cannot revive a credit which had already lapsed under section 16(4); 9. most taxpayer-favourable High Court decisions merely order reconsideration; and 10. section 16(5) itself expressly refers to ITC being taken in a section 39 return. The last point is particularly important. When Parliament retrospectively relaxed the time limit for earlier financial years, it still chose the expression “return under section 39”. This may be regarded as legislative confirmation that the act of taking ITC is associated with the section 39 return. 16. Claim, Disclosure and Availment Must Be Distinguished The word “claim” is often used loosely. Suppose a taxpayer shows ₹25 lakh as ITC in GSTR-9. That gives rise to three separate questions. First: Was the credit eligible? This depends upon sections 16 and 17 and the relevant documentary requirements. Second: Was the credit actually availed within the permissible time? This raises section 16(4), section 16(5), section 39 and the electronic credit ledger mechanism. Third: What evidentiary value should be attached to GSTR-9? The annual return may establish that the taxpayer itself reported the credit, reconciled the figures and disclosed the mistake. A taxpayer may succeed on the first and third questions but still encounter difficulty on the second. Therefore: Disclosure is not necessarily the same as availment. This is perhaps the most important interpretative point in the entire controversy. 17. Rectification of Existing ITC Versus Creation of Fresh ITC The strongest legal distinction is between: (a) rectifying an already availed credit; and (b) attempting to create a credit for the first time. Suppose ₹50 lakh of ITC was taken in GSTR-3B but shown under an incorrect table. The credit already entered the electronic credit ledger. Correcting the table in GSTR-9 does not create an additional ₹50 lakh. It merely explains the nature of the credit already availed. This is broadly the Biocon principle. Similarly, where IGST was wrongly shown as CGST and SGST, the core dispute concerns classification rather than complete non-availment. In contrast, suppose every GSTR-3B showed nil ITC and ₹50 lakh was disclosed for the first time in GSTR-9 after expiry of the statutory time limit. The Revenue can argue that no corresponding ₹50 lakh ever entered the electronic credit ledger. Therefore, the taxpayer is not merely correcting a mistake but effectively seeking to create a fresh statutory credit. That is a substantially weaker case. 18. Can GSTR-9 Be Ignored? Although GSTR-9 may not independently create ITC, it cannot be treated as irrelevant. The annual return is a statutory document. It can provide evidence regarding: existence of genuine purchases; reconciliation of inward supplies; quantum of eligible ITC; nature of the reporting mistake; absence of duplicate credit; consistency with books; tax-head errors; table classification errors; and bona fides of the taxpayer. The High Court decisions demonstrate that the assessing authority must examine such evidence. A proper adjudication should therefore not end with the statement: “ITC was not claimed in GSTR-3B and is therefore rejected.” The officer should examine whether the taxpayer actually satisfies the substantive conditions, what error occurred, whether credit had already been taken elsewhere, and whether any statutory time restriction applies. 19. Practical Decision Matrix The following approach may be useful in pending cases. Situation 1 — ITC already in GSTR-3B, but wrong table Taxpayer’s case is strong. Biocon provides important support. The annual return can operate as reconciliation evidence. Situation 2 — ITC taken under wrong tax head Again, the taxpayer stands on strong footing. Periyasamy Karthikeyan is relevant. Situation 3 — ITC omitted in one or more GSTR-3B returns but contemporaneously disclosed in GSTR-9 and supported by documents The case is arguable. Sri Shanmuga, Pioneer and Laxmi Ghosh support reconsideration and examination of the evidence. However, automatic allowance cannot be assumed. Situation 4 — ITC never claimed in any GSTR-3B and shown for the first time in GSTR-9 This is the weakest category. The taxpayer can rely upon substantive entitlement and High Court jurisprudence against mechanical rejection, but the Revenue has a strong statutory argument based on section 16(4), section 16(5), section 39 and the electronic credit ledger. 20. Litigation Strategy In a dispute of this nature, the taxpayer should avoid relying only upon the statement: “The ITC was disclosed in GSTR-9.” Instead, the complete evidence chain should be established: Invoice ↓ Receipt of goods/services ↓ Books of account ↓ GSTR-2A/GSTR-2B or other statutory evidence ↓ GSTR-3B position ↓ GSTR-9/GSTR-9C reconciliation ↓ Electronic credit ledger ↓ Proof that there is no double claim The taxpayer should specifically explain why the error occurred. For example: wrong tax head; wrong table; omission due to return-filing error; reconciliation difference; portal-related difficulty; incorrect understanding during the initial GST years; or inadvertent omission subsequently discovered during annual reconciliation. The taxpayer should also establish that allowing the credit would not result in duplication. This factual foundation may determine the outcome more than broad legal propositions. 21. Effect of Section 16(5) on Pending Disputes Section 16(5) should now be examined in every dispute relating to FYs 2017-18 to 2020-21. Suppose credit relating to FY 2018-19 was originally omitted but subsequently claimed through a GSTR-3B filed before 30 November 2021. The retrospective provision may substantially protect the taxpayer. However, if the credit was never taken in any section 39 return and merely appeared in GSTR-9, section 16(5) may actually strengthen the Revenue’s argument. This is because Parliament could have said that ITC may be claimed in any return or statement. Instead, it specifically referred to a return under section 39. Emerging Legal Position Accordingly, future litigation is likely to increasingly focus upon whether credit actually entered a GSTR-3B within the extended statutory window. A harmonious reading of the statutory provisions and the High Court decisions supports the following legal propositions. First, substantive eligibility to ITC is governed by section 16 and related provisions. Second, ITC is ordinarily availed through GSTR-3B, the section 39 return, and is reflected in the electronic credit ledger. Third, GSTR-9 is the annual return under section 44 and cannot ordinarily be equated with GSTR-3B for all purposes. Fourth, GSTR-9 is nevertheless a relevant statutory document and cannot be mechanically ignored while adjudicating the taxpayer’s entitlement. Fifth, errors of classification or reporting stand on stronger footing than complete non-availment. Sixth, Sri Shanmuga, Pioneer and Laxmi Ghosh support examination and reconsideration of omitted-credit claims but do not conclusively declare that GSTR-9 is universally equivalent to GSTR-3B. Seventh, Biocon and Periyasamy Karthikeyan materially strengthen cases where the credit was already availed but incorrectly classified. Eighth, section 16(5) reinforces the importance of the section 39 return for earlier financial years. Conclusion The question whether ITC omitted from GSTR-3B can be claimed through GSTR-9 does not admit of a simplistic answer. It would be incorrect to state broadly that GSTR-9 can never have any relevance to such ITC. It would be equally incorrect to state that the High Courts have conclusively established a general right to avail ITC for the first time through GSTR-9. The statutory scheme indicates that GSTR-3B is ordinarily the mechanism through which ITC is taken and reflected in the electronic credit ledger. GSTR-9 performs a different function as an annual return and reconciliation document. However, the High Courts have increasingly emphasised that a genuine ITC claim should not be rejected merely by mechanically looking at GSTR-3B. Where invoices, inward supplies, GSTR-2A/GSTR-2B, books of account and GSTR-9 establish a genuine transaction, the assessing authority must examine the complete factual position. The most important distinction is therefore between: rectification or reconciliation of an ITC already availed, and first-time availment of an ITC which never entered GSTR-3B within the statutory period. The former category enjoys comparatively strong judicial protection. The latter remains legally vulnerable. The 2024 insertion of section 16(5) further strengthens this distinction by expressly permitting the specified historical ITC to be taken in a return under section 39, thereby reaffirming the statutory importance of GSTR-3B. Accordingly, the present legal position may be summarised as follows: GSTR-9 is important statutory evidence and can support correction, reconciliation and reconsideration of an otherwise genuine ITC claim. But, as the law presently stands, GSTR-9 cannot safely be regarded as an automatic or universal substitute for GSTR-3B for first-time availment of ITC after expiry of the statutory time limit. Until the Supreme Court authoritatively decides the precise issue, each case must therefore be analysed on its own facts, particularly by examining whether the dispute involves an eligible credit wrongly reported, credit taken under the wrong head or table, delayed credit actually taken in a section 39 return, or credit never taken in GSTR-3B and asserted for the first time only through the annual return. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST NotificationsGSTR 3BGSTR 9input tax credit Author Info Name: CA RAJENDER ARORA Qualification: CA in Practice Company: GST Research Foundation Location: DELHI, Delhi Articles Published: 58 View full profile → More from CA RAJENDER ARORA GST Summons Under Section 70: Power To Inquire & Procedural Discipline September 5, 2026 Bhandari Scrap & Safecon: New Fault Lines in GST ITC Litigation August 19, 2026 Rule 14A GST Registration: ₹2.5 Lakh B2B Tax Limit August 11, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Karnataka HC Directs Reimbursement of 12% GST to Civil Contractor September 11, 2026 Rajasthan High Court Rejects Delayed GST Appeal Beyond Statutory Limitation September 11, 2026 GST Section 129 Penalty Quashed Without Tax Evasion Intention: Allahabad HC September 10, 2026 GST Section 129 Penalty Quashed for Technical E-Way Bill Error: Allahabad HC September 10, 2026 GST Section 129 Penalty Quashed for E-Way Bill Lapse Without Tax Evasion: Allahabad HC September 10, 2026 GST Section 129 Penalty Quashed Where No Tax Evasion Intent Found: Allahabad HC September 10, 2026