PCAOB Announces Members of the Inspections Modernization Council WASHINGTON, Jul. 9, 2026 The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) today announced the members of the Inspections Modernization Council (IMC). A resource group composed of outside parties with a stake in the PCAOB’s inspection activities, the IMC will provide perspectives to inform the PCAOB’s efforts to modernize its inspection program and thereby improve audit quality. Potential changes that the IMC will consider include generating more meaningful outputs for consumers of inspection reports, leveraging technological innovations such as automation and artificial intelligence, and focusing inspections on firms’ systems of quality control. “I was pleased with the tremendous number of high-quality applicants we received for the Inspections Modernization Council. Over 100 people from across the financial reporting ecosystem applied to be part of the IMC, and choosing among them was not an easy task,” said PCAOB Chairman Demetrios (Jim) Logothetis. “We thank all those who applied, and we look forward to hearing more from the experts who have been chosen to serve on the IMC,” Chairman Logothetis added. Inspections Modernization Council Members NAME ORGANIZATION/COMPANY David J. Cohen, CPA, CFE Forvis Mazars, LLP Kyle D. Crockett Ford Motor Company Ashley "Ash" Dalnoot, CPA Grant Thornton Advisors LLC Alicia R. Damley, CFA, CPA, CA Aarya Capital Stacy Hammett, CPA, CA Canadian Public Accountability Board Angelo Poulikakos PROTIVITI Manuel J. Ramirez, CPA, MST, FABFA RJI International Jen SissonInternational Corporate Governance NetworkDan G. Sunderland Northeastern University Huong Tran Instacart Brendan Whalen, CPA S.R. Snodgrass, P.C. Lucia M. Wind, CFE Committee of Sponsoring Organizations For more information on the IMC, visit the its page on the PCAOB website. *****About the PCAOBThe PCAOB is a nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee the audits of public companies in order to protect investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. The PCAOB also oversees the audits of brokers and dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including compliance reports filed pursuant to federal securities laws. Related Topics Inspections