Summary: Ethereum is a programmable blockchain whose native crypto-asset, Ether (ETH), is used to pay network fees, participate in proof-of-stake validation and interact with smart contracts and decentralised applications. For an Indian taxpayer, however, ETH is not outside the tax system merely because it operates on a decentralised network. For tax year 2026-27, the Income-tax Act, 2025 applies: income from transfer of a virtual digital asset is subject to the special 30% rate under section 194, Table Sl. No. 4, with only cost of acquisition generally deductible and with statutory restrictions on set-off and carry-forward of VDA losses. Qualifying consideration for transfer of a VDA is also subject to 1% TDS under section 393(1), Table Sl. No. 8(vi), subject to the applicable ₹50,000/₹10,000 thresholds. India has additionally strengthened crypto-asset reporting under section 509 and PMLA/FIU-IND oversight of VDA service providers. Investors should separately analyse staking rewards, token swaps, DeFi activity, gifts, offshore transactions, GST on platform services and accounting/disclosure because the tax result may depend on the precise transaction rather than on the label “Ethereum”. Table of Contents▸ What Is Ethereum and What Is ETH? Why Ethereum Is Different From a Simple Payment Token ETH Is a Virtual Digital Asset for Indian Income-tax Purposes 30% Tax on Income From Transfer of ETH Illustration: Sale of ETH 1% TDS on Transfer of ETH: Section 393 ETH-to-Crypto Swaps Can Still Be Tax Events Staking ETH: Separate the Reward From a Later Transfer Crypto-Asset Reporting Has Become More Important From 2026 PMLA and FIU-IND Compliance: Platform Choice Matters GST: Do Not Confuse Tax on ETH Gains With GST on Services FEMA and Cross-Border ETH Transactions Accounting and Audit Considerations Practical Compliance Checklist for Indian ETH Users Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 1. Is Ethereum legal tender in India? Key Takeaways Show all 17 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); What Is Ethereum and What Is ETH? Ethereum is a decentralised blockchain designed not only to transfer value but also to execute programmable instructions known as smart contracts. These smart contracts support decentralised applications, token issuance, decentralised finance protocols, non-fungible tokens and other blockchain-based arrangements. Ether, commonly represented by the ticker ETH, is Ethereum’s native crypto-asset. ETH is used to pay transaction and computation charges on the network, commonly called “gas”, and is also the asset staked by validators participating in Ethereum’s proof-of-stake consensus mechanism. Ethereum moved from proof-of-work to proof-of-stake through “The Merge” on 15 September 2022. Under proof-of-stake, validators commit ETH to the protocol and participate in validating blocks. Protocol penalties, including “slashing” in specified circumstances, are designed to discourage dishonest validator behaviour. Why Ethereum Is Different From a Simple Payment Token Ethereum functions as a programmable settlement layer. A transaction may therefore involve much more than buying or selling ETH for rupees. A user may exchange ETH for another token, provide ETH to a smart contract, stake ETH, bridge assets between networks, interact with a decentralised exchange, receive tokens through an airdrop, pay gas or receive protocol rewards. That technological flexibility creates tax and compliance complexity. The legal analysis should be transaction-specific: a sale of ETH, an ETH-for-token swap, staking income and use of ETH to acquire another asset need not have identical tax consequences. ETH Is a Virtual Digital Asset for Indian Income-tax Purposes Cryptocurrencies such as Ether fall within India’s virtual digital asset framework. The earlier VDA regime under the Income-tax Act, 1961 has been carried into the Income-tax Act, 2025, which applies from 1 April 2026. For current transactions, references should therefore be made primarily to the 2025 Act rather than mechanically continuing to cite the repealed provisions of the 1961 Act. For background on the broader VDA framework, see Taxation of Cryptocurrency Trading in India: Current Law & Post-Budget 2026 Position and VDA Tax Under Income Tax Act 2025: Cross-Border Gaps and CARF. 30% Tax on Income From Transfer of ETH For tax year 2026-27, section 194, Table Sl. No. 4 of the Income-tax Act, 2025 provides a 30% rate for income from transfer of a virtual digital asset. Applicable surcharge and health and education cess are additional. The special regime is restrictive. Broadly: only the cost of acquisition , if any, is permitted as a deduction in computing the specified VDA income; other expenditure or allowance is not deductible under the special provision; a loss from transfer of a VDA cannot be set off against income computed under another provision; and such VDA loss cannot be carried forward to succeeding tax years. These rules are materially different from ordinary equity capital-gains taxation. Holding ETH for a longer period does not by itself produce a concessional long-term VDA tax rate under this special regime. Illustration: Sale of ETH Assume an Indian resident acquires ETH for ₹4,00,000 and later transfers it for ₹6,50,000. Ignoring other facts, the VDA income is ₹2,50,000. Tax at 30% is ₹75,000; health and education cess at 4% would be ₹3,000, giving ₹78,000 before considering any applicable surcharge and available TDS credit. This is only a simplified illustration and not a computation for a particular taxpayer. 1% TDS on Transfer of ETH: Section 393 The VDA TDS mechanism formerly associated with section 194S of the 1961 Act now appears under section 393(1), Table Sl. No. 8(vi) of the Income-tax Act, 2025. The applicable rate is 1% of qualifying consideration for transfer of a VDA. The threshold is generally ₹50,000 during the tax year where the payer is a specified individual/HUF satisfying the statutory conditions and ₹10,000 in other cases. The detailed threshold provision is contained in section 393(4), Table Sl. No. 12. Exchange-facilitated transactions, peer-to-peer transfers and consideration wholly or partly in kind require attention to the applicable deduction and payment mechanics. Importantly, TDS is a collection mechanism and is not the final tax on the seller’s VDA income. The seller ordinarily claims eligible TDS credit while determining the final tax liability. See Guide to TDS/TCS Restructuring for FY 2026-27 under Income Tax Act, 2025. ETH-to-Crypto Swaps Can Still Be Tax Events A common mistake is to assume that tax arises only when ETH is converted into Indian rupees. The VDA regime is framed around transfer. Exchanging ETH for another VDA can therefore require tax analysis even though no rupees enter the wallet. TDS mechanics also expressly contemplate consideration in kind or partly in kind. Investors using decentralised exchanges should consequently maintain transaction-level records showing date and time, assets transferred and received, quantity, INR valuation methodology, wallet addresses, transaction hash, gas charges, platform records and supporting evidence of original cost. Staking ETH: Separate the Reward From a Later Transfer Ethereum’s proof-of-stake architecture allows ETH to be committed for validation directly or through staking arrangements. Indian tax law’s special 30% VDA provision expressly governs income from transfer of a VDA; it should not automatically be treated as a complete code for every possible receipt arising from staking. The tax treatment of staking rewards therefore requires a fact-specific analysis of the nature and timing of the receipt, the taxpayer’s activity and the relevant charging provisions. A subsequent transfer of ETH or another VDA received as a staking reward may separately engage section 194. Taxpayers should preserve evidence of the fair value and source of rewards when received and the cost position adopted for any later transfer. Aggressive assumptions that staking is either automatically tax-free or automatically covered by the 30% transfer rule should be avoided without examining the facts. Crypto-Asset Reporting Has Become More Important From 2026 Section 509 of the Income-tax Act, 2025 establishes reporting obligations for prescribed reporting entities in respect of crypto-asset transactions. CBDT’s July 2026 guidance for Reporting Crypto-Asset Service Providers explains the framework together with Rules 241 to 244 and Form 167 of the Income-tax Rules, 2026. The Finance Act, 2026 also strengthened enforcement through section 446. The crypto-reporting penalty framework includes ₹200 per day for specified failure to furnish the required statement and ₹50,000 for specified inaccurate-information/due-diligence defaults. These are reporting-entity obligations, but they materially increase the visibility and data trail surrounding crypto transactions. See CBDT Issues Guidance Note on Crypto-Asset Reporting Framework for RCASPs and Finance Act 2026. PMLA and FIU-IND Compliance: Platform Choice Matters Specified VDA service activities were brought within India’s anti-money-laundering framework in March 2023. VDA service providers carrying on covered activities for Indian users may be required to register with the Financial Intelligence Unit-India as reporting entities and comply with PMLA/AML-CFT obligations, including KYC, record-keeping and reporting requirements. This is not merely theoretical. On 9 September 2026, FIU-IND announced non-compliance action against 15 VDA service providers and related takedown action in respect of applications/URLs found to be operating without complying with applicable PMLA requirements in India. The compliance obligations are activity-based and can extend to offshore providers serving Indian users. For the recent enforcement position, see FIU-IND Issues Non-Compliance Notices to 15 VDA Service Providers under Section 13 of PMLA. GST: Do Not Confuse Tax on ETH Gains With GST on Services Income-tax on VDA transfers and GST are different regimes. Crypto exchanges, platforms and other service providers may charge GST on taxable services/fees supplied to users. That does not mean that the 30% income-tax rate itself is a GST levy, nor should every movement of ETH be assumed to have the same GST character. DeFi, staking facilitation, brokerage, platform fees and cross-border service arrangements can create separate GST questions concerning the nature of supply, supplier, recipient, place of supply and consideration. Businesses should obtain transaction-specific indirect-tax advice rather than extrapolate from the income-tax VDA rules. FEMA and Cross-Border ETH Transactions Taxation of ETH does not by itself amount to a blanket regulatory approval for every cross-border crypto transaction. Where an Indian resident remits money abroad, deals through an offshore platform, transfers value to a non-resident, receives assets from overseas or uses crypto in a cross-border commercial arrangement, FEMA and RBI rules require separate examination. The legal character of the underlying transaction, remittance route, counterparty, purpose and applicable foreign-exchange permissions matter. Investors should therefore avoid treating “taxable in India” as synonymous with “permitted under FEMA”. Accounting and Audit Considerations Entities holding ETH should document the purpose for which it is held, the applicable accounting framework, custody arrangements, ownership evidence, valuation source and controls over private keys. Crypto-assets do not fit automatically into the accounting treatment used for cash or ordinary financial assets. Depending on the facts and applicable accounting framework, classification and measurement require professional analysis. Auditors will ordinarily be concerned with existence, rights and obligations, valuation, completeness of wallets/exchange accounts, related-party transactions, cut-off, impairment or fair-value methodology where relevant, and the reliability of third-party exchange/custodian evidence. Material crypto exposure and concentration/custody risks may also require appropriate financial-statement disclosures. Practical Compliance Checklist for Indian ETH Users Maintain a complete transaction ledger across every exchange and self-custody wallet. Record INR value and supporting price source for every acquisition, transfer, swap, staking receipt and disposal. Reconcile exchange statements, wallet transaction hashes, bank movements and TDS reflected in tax records. Do not net profitable ETH transfers against losses on other VDAs contrary to the statutory loss restriction. Check whether 1% TDS has been correctly deducted/deposited, especially for P2P and VDA-to-VDA transactions. Use platforms after considering FIU-IND/PMLA compliance and custody/security risks. Analyse staking, airdrops, DeFi, gifts and cross-border transactions separately rather than forcing every receipt into a single tax category. Retain records supporting cost of acquisition and wallet ownership for assessment, audit and source-of-funds purposes. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 1. Is Ethereum legal tender in India? No. ETH is not Indian legal tender. The existence of a detailed tax and AML framework for VDAs should not be confused with recognition of ETH as sovereign currency or legal tender. 2. What is the income-tax rate on profit from sale of ETH in tax year 2026-27? Income from transfer of a VDA is subject to a 30% special rate under section 194, Table Sl. No. 4 of the Income-tax Act, 2025, plus applicable surcharge and cess, subject to the statutory computation rules. 3. Does the old section 115BBH still govern a new ETH sale after 1 April 2026? For current transactions after commencement of the Income-tax Act, 2025, the corresponding special-rate provision is section 194, Table Sl. No. 4. Section 115BBH remains relevant to periods governed by the earlier Income-tax Act, 1961. 4. Is 1% TDS applicable when ETH is sold? Qualifying consideration for transfer of a VDA is subject to 1% TDS under section 393(1), Table Sl. No. 8(vi), subject to the statutory thresholds and other conditions. The threshold is generally ₹50,000 for a specified individual/HUF and ₹10,000 for other payers. 5. Is swapping ETH for another cryptocurrency taxable? A VDA-to-VDA exchange can constitute a transfer and requires income-tax and TDS analysis even without a rupee cash-out. Accurate INR valuation and transaction records are important. 6. Can an ETH trading loss be adjusted against a Bitcoin gain? The special VDA rules prohibit set-off of loss from transfer of a VDA in the manner specified by section 194. Taxpayers should not assume that losses on one token can be freely netted against gains on another. 7. Are Ethereum staking rewards automatically taxed at 30% when received? Not necessarily. The 30% special rate is framed around income from transfer of a VDA. The character and timing of taxation of a staking reward require separate analysis on the facts; a later transfer of the received VDA may independently trigger the VDA transfer regime. 8. Does paying tax make every offshore ETH transaction permissible under FEMA? No. Income-tax compliance and FEMA permissibility are separate questions. Cross-border remittances, offshore platforms and transfers involving non-residents should be examined under the applicable foreign-exchange framework. Key Takeaways Ethereum is a programmable proof-of-stake blockchain; ETH is its native crypto-asset. For tax year 2026-27, income from transfer of ETH falls within the Income-tax Act, 2025 VDA regime. Section 194, Table Sl. No. 4 imposes the 30% special rate, with restrictive deduction and loss rules. Section 393(1), Table Sl. No. 8(vi) provides for 1% TDS on qualifying VDA transfer consideration, subject to statutory thresholds. Crypto-to-crypto swaps can have tax/TDS consequences even without conversion into rupees. Staking rewards require a separate fact-based tax analysis; the transfer rule should not automatically be applied to every staking receipt. Section 509 reporting, section 446 penalties and FIU-IND/PMLA enforcement have materially strengthened India’s crypto compliance environment in 2026. GST, FEMA, accounting and audit issues must be examined separately from the special VDA income-tax regime. ***** Disclaimer: This article is solely for general informational and educational purposes. It does not constitute investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice and is not a recommendation to buy, sell, hold or otherwise deal in Ethereum (ETH) or any cryptocurrency or crypto-asset. Crypto-assets are volatile and may involve substantial risk, including loss of capital. Technology, market conditions, tax treatment, legal requirements and regulatory positions can change, and their application depends on the facts of each transaction and taxpayer. Readers must independently verify the current statutory provisions, rules, notifications, regulatory requirements, platform status and other relevant information and should consult appropriate investment, tax, legal and accounting professionals before acting. TaxGuru does not endorse Ethereum, any crypto-asset, exchange, platform, wallet, staking provider or other service merely by publishing this article. TaxGuru, its owners, management, editors, authors, employees and associated persons accept no responsibility or liability for any loss, damage, consequence, decision or action arising directly or indirectly from reliance on or use of this article or any information contained in it. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Cryptocurrency - BitcoinTDSVirtual Digital Assets Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,888 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Further Investigation Alone Does Not Justify Custodial Interrogation: Telangana HC October 4, 2026 UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund: Features, TER, Taxation & Investor Risks October 3, 2026 Section 28 Customs Demand Does Not Require Prior Challenge to Self-Assessment: CESTAT Ahmedabad October 3, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google