Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14506 Case Name Nakshatra Overseas Vs Central Board of Indirect Taxes (Punjab and Haryana High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Allahabad High Court Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Nakshatra Overseas Vs Central Board of Indirect Taxes (Punjab and Haryana High Court) Summary: Punjab and Haryana High Court granted interim relief to M/s Nakshatra Overseas in CWP-1355-2024 by directing release of goods stated to be perishable in nature. The petitioner submitted before the Court that the goods required release and that the entire customs/excise duty had already been paid. Considering the facts and circumstances, the Division Bench directed that the goods be released subject to the petitioner furnishing surety bonds equivalent to the value of the goods. The Court specifically ordered that upon furnishing such bonds, the goods should be released forthwith. The matter was adjourned to 16.04.2024 and the respondents were directed to file their reply in the Registry in the meantime. The order was passed by Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma and Justice Sude epti Sharma on 12 February 2024. The Court also dealt with service upon respondents Nos. 4 and 5, directing the petitioner to provide the correct email address of respondent No. 4 and recording deemed service upon respondent No. 5 based on the email address placed on record. FULL TEXT OF THE PUNJAB AND HARYANA HIGH COURT ORDER Learned counsel for the petitioner is directed to provide correct email address of respondents No.4 . On doing the needful, let notice be issued to the said respondent through ordinary as well as registered post. Learned counsel for the petitioner has placed on record email sent from his office i.e. [email protected], the email address of respondent No.5 as is appeared on page No.99 of the documents, thus, service shall be presumed to be effected on respondent No.5. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that the goods are of perishable nature and required to be released. It is informed that the petitioner has already paid full customs/excise duty. However, considering the facts and circumstances of the case, direction is issued to release the goods subject to furnishing of surety bonds equivalent to the value of the goods. On furnishing the said bonds, the goods shall be released forthwith. Adjourned to 16.04.2024. In the meantime, reply be filed in the Registry. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under high court judgments Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,852 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi GST Summons Cannot Trigger Section 438 Anticipatory Bail: Supreme Court October 2, 2026 Section 41A Notice Not Mandatory Before GST Arrest: Telangana HC October 2, 2026 ₹20.28 Crore Fake ITC Case: Rajasthan HC Denies Bail October 2, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty CESTAT Kolkata Deletes ₹10 Lakh Customs Penalty for Lack of Corroborative Evidence October 2, 2026 Smuggled Gold Paste Is Prohibited Goods; Gujarat HC Upholds Section 112 Penalty October 2, 2026 Gold Falls Within Prohibited Goods Category: Delhi HC Dismisses Customs Appeal October 2, 2026 Allahabad HC Upholds Redemption of Gold as Import Was Not Prohibited October 2, 2026 Section 112 Penalty Unsustainable Without Corroborative Evidence: CESTAT Kolkata October 2, 2026 Acceptance of Enhanced Customs Value Does Not Bar Importer From Challenging Reassessment: CESTAT Delhi October 2, 2026