Summary: When a buyer accidentally rejects a valid Credit Note (CN), the tax reduction is cancelled and the GST amount is added back to the supplier’s output tax liability. The supplied article sets out two workflows depending on when the rejection occurs. For a same-month rejection, where the Credit Note was issued and reported in GSTR-1 but rejected before the current month’s GSTR-3B is filed, the prescribed workflow uses GSTR-1A and Table 9 to amend the Credit/Debit Note with the identical original note number, original issuance date, underlying invoice details, gross value and taxable value, followed by filing GSTR-1A. The article states that this results in an immediate recalculation, removes the forced tax clawback from Table 3.1 of GSTR-3B and makes GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B tally. For a later-month rejection, where the earlier return period is frozen, the workflow uses the current open GSTR-1 and Table 9C to amend the historical Credit Note using the same original particulars. The article states that this produces a temporary zero-delta mismatch because the current GSTR-3B continues to carry the forced tax addition. The mismatch is cleared after GSTR-1 is filed and the buyer accepts the re-reported document through the Invoice Management System (IMS), after which the portal automatically drops the forced tax clawback. A comparison table summarises the forms, tables, duplicate-code treatment, immediate matching position and required buyer action under both workflows. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Workflow 1: Same-Month Rejection (Fixed via Form GSTR-1A) Step 1: Navigating the Portal Step 2: Table Selection & Column Mapping The Result Workflow 2: Later-Month Rejection (Fixed via GSTR-1 Table 9C) Step 1: Navigating the Portal Step 2: Table Selection & Column Mapping The Result (The Temporary Mismatch) How to Clear the Table 9C Mismatch Comparison Checklist for Your Reference Show all 11 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction When a buyer accidentally rejects a valid Credit Note (CN), the system automatically cancels your tax reduction and claws back the GST amount by adding it to your output tax liability. To fix this and make your returns match, your action plan depends entirely on when the buyer rejected the document. Below are the two definitive workflows Workflow 1: Same-Month Rejection (Fixed via Form GSTR-1A) Use this if: You issued the Credit Note this month, filed your GSTR-1, and the buyer rejected it before you filed your current month’s GSTR-3B. Step 1: Navigating the Portal 1. Go to Services → Returns → Returns Dashboard. 2. Select the current filing month and look for the tile labeled GSTR-1A (Amendment of outward supplies). Click Prepare Online. Step 2: Table Selection & Column Mapping Inside GSTR-1A, scroll down to the Amend Record Details section and select Table 9 – Amend Credit/Debit Note (Registered). Search using your original note number, click Amend Note, and copy the exact, unchanged details into the columns: Portal Column / Field Name Value to Enter (Unchanged Data) Revised Note Number Re-type the identical original note number. Revised Note Date Keep the original date of issuance. Original Invoice Number & Date Enter the underlying B2B invoice number and date. Note Type & Value Select Credit Note and enter the total gross value (Taxable + GST). Taxable Value Box (e.g., 18%) Enter the exact same taxable amount as originally filed. Click Save, click Generate Summary, and file Form GSTR-1A. The Result Because this happens in the same month, the portal instantly recalculates your tax profile. It removes the forced tax clawback out of Table 3.1 of your current GSTR-3B. Your current GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B tally and match perfectly right now, and the document re-appears in the buyer’s IMS for them to click “Accept”. For additional TaxGuru material on GSTR-1A, see GSTR-1A: What it is and How to file and the Detailed Manual and FAQs on filing of GSTR-1A. Workflow 2: Later-Month Rejection (Fixed via GSTR-1 Table 9C) Use this if: You issued the Credit Note in a previous month (e.g., May), but the buyer rejected it in a later month’s return cycle (e.g., July), and that previous window is now completely frozen. Step 1: Navigating the Portal 1. Open your current open, un-filed standard GSTR-1. 2. Scroll down and click directly on Table 9C – Amended Credit/Debit Notes (Registered). (Note: You cannot use Table 9B because the portal will block you with a “Duplicate Note Number” error). Step 2: Table Selection & Column Mapping Search for the old financial year and original note number, click Amend Note, and populate the amendment grid with the exact same historical records: Portal Column / Field Name Value to Enter (Unchanged Data) Revised Note Number Keep this identical to the original note number. Revised Note Date Keep the original historical date; do not use today’s date. Original Invoice Number & Date Re-map the exact underlying invoice details linked previously. Note Type & Value Select Credit Note and enter the full original gross value. Taxable Value Grid Enter the value under the applicable tax rate grid (e.g., 18%). Click Save and file your GSTR-1. The Result (The Temporary Mismatch) Because you entered identical values, Table 9C calculates a “Zero Delta” (₹0 change) for this month, adding nothing to your current GSTR-1 summary. However, your current GSTR-3B is carrying a forced tax addition from the buyer’s past rejection. Your GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B will not match immediately. How to Clear the Table 9C Mismatch Under the modern rules, the outward liability cells in GSTR-3B are hard-locked. You cannot manually type over the mismatch error. To clear it: 1. File your GSTR-1 with Table 9C to push the document back into the active matching stream. 2. Instruct your buyer to log into their Invoice Management System (IMS) dashboard, locate this fresh entry, and click “Accept”. 3. The moment the buyer accepts it, the portal’s backend logs the data handshake, automatically drops the forced tax clawback from your GSTR-3B, and makes your returns match perfectly. TaxGuru has also published detailed material on the Invoice Management System (IMS) and the handling of inadvertently rejected records on IMS. Comparison Checklist for Your Reference Feature / Step Same-Month Rejection (Workflow 1) Later-Month Rejection (Workflow 2) Portal Form to Use Form GSTR-1A Form GSTR-1 Specific Table Selected Table 9 (Amend Note) Table 9C (Amended Notes) Bypasses “Duplicate Code” Error? Yes Yes Do the returns tally right away? Yes. GSTR-3B auto-corrects instantly. No. Mismatch stays until the buyer clicks accept. Required Buyer Action Must log in and click Accept. Must log in and click Accept. Thank You for Reading Thank you for taking the time to read this article. I appreciate your attention and interest in the topic. I hope the insights shared here prove valuable in your professional endeavours. Your feedback or perspective is always welcome. please feel free to connect or continue the conversation. ******* Disclaimer: While every effort has been made to avoid errors or omissions in this document, the author makes no warranty, and expressly disclaims any obligation, that: (a) the information contained herein will be complete, accurate or up-to-date; (b) the results obtained from the use of such information will be accurate or reliable; or (c) the quality of such information will meet the user(s) expectations. The author is not responsible or liable for any loss, claim, delay, or damages, of any kind (including, without limitation, loss of profits or loss of savings) that may arise out of, or is connected with, any use of such information. The author expressly disclaims and will not be liable for any act or omission, or any consequence of any act or omission, by user(s) relying on the information in this document or any interpretation thereof. The user(s) should refer the original Government publications and/or notifications before any act or omission. Readers are encouraged to consult with qualified professionals to obtain advice tailored to their individual circumstances. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGSTR 3B Author Info Name: RAJAGOPAL K Qualification: Post Graduate Company: Textile Industry at Coimbatore Location: COIMBATORE, Tamil Nadu Articles Published: 14 View full profile → More from RAJAGOPAL K Format of Certificate of Non-Availment of ITC by Recipient of Goods June 12, 2026 No TDS on Transport Payments: Declaration Format Under Income Tax Act 2025 April 21, 2026 Format of Certificate of ITC Reversal by the Recipient of Goods and Services March 17, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Section 61 Scrutiny: What Proper Officer Can and Cannot Examine September 10, 2026 Section 122(1A) CGST Act: Prospective or Retrospective? September 10, 2026 When Can GST Officers Visit Business Premises? GST Powers Explained September 10, 2026 GST Registration Cancellation: Reasons, Procedure, Retrospective Impact & Compliance September 10, 2026 Notebook GST Exemption Squeezes Indian MSMEs Amid Cheap ASEAN Imports September 10, 2026 Rajasthan HC Restores Delayed GST Appeal, Directs Decision on Merits September 9, 2026