Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14837 Case Name Additional Commissioner, Commercial Tax & Ors. Vs Cadila Health Care Ltd. & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Additional Commissioner, Commercial Tax & Ors. Vs Cadila Health Care Ltd. & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) A Powder Does Not Become a Beverage Before It Is Mixed: Supreme Court Rejects Higher Tax Classification Tax the Product as Sold, Not as Later Prepared The Supreme Court held that “GRD Powder” and “GRD Mix” could not be classified as non-alcoholic drinks and beverages merely because consumers could mix them with milk or water. The goods existed in powder and biscuit form at the taxable event. Their subsequent preparation as a drink did not change their classification at the point of sale. The Court accordingly dismissed the Revenue’s appeals and upheld the Madhya Pradesh High Court’s decision applying the residuary entry carrying 8% commercial tax, rather than the beverage entry attracting 10%, for AY 1997-98. The ruling emphasises that the statutory entry and the product’s identity when sold govern classification. Revenue Relied on Packaging and Consumption Instructions Cadila manufactured and marketed the disputed products. The Revenue argued that their packaging, illustrations and instructions encouraged consumers to prepare and enjoy them as drinks, either hot or cold. Since the goods were intended to be mixed with milk or water, the Revenue sought classification under Entry 20(ii), Part IV, Schedule II of the Madhya Pradesh Commercial Tax Act, 1994. That entry covered non-alcoholic drinks and beverages, including syrups, cordials, distilled juices, ark and essences when sold in specified containers. Cadila maintained that the products were sold across the counter in powder and biscuit form and therefore belonged to the residuary entry. The dispute also involved corresponding classification under the Entry Tax Act, 1976. Taxable Identity Is Determined at the Point of Sale The Court held that the incidence of taxation must be determined by the nature and form of the goods supplied. A powder mix sold as powder does not become a ready-to-drink beverage merely because a consumer later adds liquid. Conversely, bottled cold coffee or a packaged protein shake is supplied as a beverage. The Court illustrated that protein powder could also be used to prepare barfi, rather than a drink. Classification cannot depend upon the consumer’s subsequent choice of preparation. Thus, the Revenue had to examine what was sold, rather than anticipate the finished product that might later be made from it. The Beverage Entry Described Liquid Preparations The Court examined the words accompanying “beverages” in Entry 20(ii): syrups, cordials, distilled juices, ark and essences. The common feature was that these items were liquids or liquid preparations, capable of being bottled, stored and used in liquid form. The entry did not refer to end use or expressly include powders intended for making drinks. Applying contextual interpretation and the rule of ejusdem generis, the Court held that “beverages” could not be read in isolation to include goods of a materially different physical character. Goods failing to answer the description of the specific entry could not be forced into it merely to attract a higher rate. Classification Tests Cannot Override Clear Statutory Language The Revenue invoked the common-parlance, functional-character and basic-nature tests, relying on the products’ use as health drinks. The Court held that these tests could not import an end-use concept that overrode clear statutory guidance. It reiterated the principle of strict construction of taxing statutes, drawing on Mathuram Agrawal v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1999) 8 SCC 667. It also referred to Commissioner of Central Excise v. Carrier Aircon Ltd., (2006) 5 SCC 596, concerning the limits of end use as a determinant of classification. The judgment therefore does not discard established classification tests. It confines their operation where the statutory language itself provides a clear answer. Rasna, Tea and Sharbat Decisions Distinguished The Court distinguished Pioma Industries v. State of Kerala, (2008) 12 SCC 695. The relevant entry there expressly included powders, tablets and concentrates used to prepare non-alcoholic drinks, and the matter had been remanded without finally determining Rasna’s classification. In S. Samuel M.D., Harrisons Malayalam v. Union of India, (2004) 1 SCC 256, the question concerned whether tea was foodstuff. That decision did not classify tea leaves or powder themselves as beverages. The Court also distinguished Hamdard (Wakf) Laboratories v. Commissioner, Commercial Tax, U.P., 2026 SCC OnLine SC 306, because the sharbat there existed in liquid form. It clarified that “including” does not make an entry unlimited: the surrounding statutory description continues to matter. Author’s Comments The judgment draws an important boundary between a preparation used to make a drink and a drink supplied as such. Its practical strength lies in examining the exact entry before relying on marketing descriptions or consumption instructions. A picture of a prepared drink cannot, by itself, rewrite the statutory classification of the product sold. Equally, the decision should not be applied mechanically to every powder under GST or another taxing statute. An entry may expressly cover beverage preparations, powders or concentrates, as the Court’s discussion of Pioma Industries demonstrates. The product’s form matters within the language of the applicable entry. Where that entry does not encompass powders through its wording or an express extension, future use as a beverage cannot supply the missing coverage. Cases Discussed: Atul Glass Industries (Pvt.) Ltd Vs Collector of Excise, (1986) 3 SCC 480 — Revenue relied upon the common-use and functional-character test. Indian Aluminum Cables Ltd. Vs Union of India & Ors., (1985) 3 SCC 284 — Cited by Revenue regarding determination of the basic nature of goods. Pioma Industries Vs State of Kerala, (2008) 12 SCC 695 — Distinguished; the relevant entry expressly included powders, tablets and concentrates used for preparation of non-alcoholic drinks. Hamdard (Wakf) Laboratories Vs Commissioner, Commercial Tax, U.P., 2026 SCC OnLine SC 306 — Distinguished because the sharbat involved there existed in liquid form. S. Samuel M.D., Harrisons Malayalam Vs Union of India, (2004) 1 SCC 256 — Distinguished; it concerned whether tea was foodstuff and did not decide whether tea leaves or powder themselves constituted a beverage. Dunlop India Ltd. Vs Union of India, (1976) 2 SCC 241 — Relied upon by the respondents on end use and classification. Hamdard Wakf Laboratories Vs Collector of Central Excise, (1999) 6 SCC 617 — Relied upon for the proposition concerning beverages as liquids for drinking. Mathuram Agrawal Vs State of Madhya Pradesh, (1999) 8 SCC 667 — Applied on strict construction of taxing statutes. Commissioner of Central Excise, Delhi Vs Carrier Aircon Ltd., (2006) 5 SCC 596 — Referred to for the principle that end use by itself cannot determine classification. FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT 1. These appeals have been filed challenging the judgment and order dated 3rd August 2011 passed by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in Writ Petitions bearing W.P. Nos. 3020 of 2003 and 4633 of 2003. By the said judgment, the High Court upheld the classification of ‘GRD Powder’ and ‘GRD Mix’, manufactured and marketed by the Respondent, under the residuary entry of Schedule II to the M.P. Commercial Tax Act, 1994 (“1994 Act”), thereby subjecting them to tax at the rate of eight per cent (8%) for the Assessment Year 1997-1998. RELEVANT FACTS 2. The Appellants assert that the indications on the goods ‘GRD Powder’ and ‘GRD Mix’, both in terms of graphical representation and the accompanying instructions, require the consumer to dilute the good with milk or water. Consequently, it is urged that the goods are classifiable as ‘Non-Alcoholic Drinks and Beverages’ falling under Entry 20(ii), Part IV, Schedule II of the 1994 Act, thereby attracting tax at the rate of ten per cent (10%). The Respondents, however, contend that the said goods being sold across the counter in the form of powder and biscuit, are exigible to tax at the rate of eight per cent (8%) under the residuary entry. 3. The relevant entries which fall for consideration in the present appeals are delineated as under:- Schedule II of the M.P. Commercial Tax Act, 1994 Entry Particulars Tax (%) Part IV 20(ii) All kinds of non-alcoholic drinks and beverages including syrups, cordials, distilled juices, ark and essences when sold in sealed or capsuled or cork bottles or jars 10 Part VII 1 All other goods not included in Schedule I or any other part of this Schedule 8 4. This Court finds that during the Assessment Year 1997-1998 under the Entry Tax Act 1976, there were three distinct phases governed by different tax slabs. In the first phase, between 1st April and 30th April, 1997, the only applicable entry under which the Respondents’ goods could be classified was the residuary entry, attracting tax at the rate of one per cent (1%). In the second phase, spanning May to September 1997, the Respondents’ goods were not amenable to Entry Tax, as there existed no entry in the Schedule dealing with such goods. In the third phase, between 1st October, 1997 and 31st March, 1998, two competing entries became relevant for classification of the Respondents’ goods, namely, Entry No. 14 and the residuary entry under Schedule III. The said entries are reproduced hereinbelow:- Schedule II of the Entry Tax Act, 1976 Entry Entry Entry 14. All kinds of non-alcoholic drinks and beverages, ice-cream, kulfi and ice candy. 2% SCHEDULE – III (See Sections 3, 4, 6, 8, 9 and 11) S. No. Description of goods Rate of tax (%) (1) (2) (3) 1 All goods other than those specified in schedule – I and Schedule II 1 ISSUES 5. Consequently, the issues which arise for consideration in the present appeals are:- (i) What is the taxable event and whether the taxing authorities are required to levy tax based on the form of the good at the time of sale or on end product? (ii) Whether the goods ‘GRD Powder’ and ‘GRD Mix’ can be classified as Non-Alcoholic Drinks and Beverages or will they fall in residuary entry? ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS 6. Mr. Akraj Kumar, learned counsel for the Appellants submitted that taxing entries must be construed in their natural sense and not in a hyper technical manner. He stated that the packaging of the goods in the present instance itself encourages the consumer to ‘enjoy the preparation either hot or cold’ with clear instructions to mix it with milk or water. He emphasised that demonstration and imagery of the concerned good is that of a health drink rather than health food. He contended that tea and coffee, though sold in powder form, have consistently been classified as beverages for the purpose of taxation. 7. He further submitted that where two competing entries arise, the Court must apply three well-recognised tests to determine the appropriate classification. The first is the ‘common use and functional character test’, which requires the Court to ascertain how the good is identified by those who deal with or consume it. Reliance was placed on the judgment of this Court in Atul Glass Industries (Pvt.) Ltd Vs. Collector of Excise, (1986) 3 SCC 480. The second test, he urged, is to determine the ‘basic nature of the good’, independent of the process of manufacture, since the process is susceptible to change. In support, reliance was placed on Indian Aluminum Cables Ltd. Vs. Union of India & Ors., (1985) 3 SCC 284. The third test, according to him, is the ‘popular meaning or common parlance test’ which this Court has repeatedly applied, holding that the common parlance meaning of an entry must prevail. 8. On the strength of the Atul Glass (supra) principle, learned counsel contended that the functional character of the goods in question is that of ‘Non-Alcoholic Drinks and Beverages’, albeit with health benefits. 9. Reliance was also placed on Pioma Industries Vs. State of Kerala, (2008) 12 SCC 695, wherein the issue was whether ‘Rasna’ in powder form was classifiable as a non-alcoholic drink/beverage or as a food preparation. In that case, Entry 87 specifically included Horlicks, Boost and Bournvita, which are well-known health drink powders belonging to the same class of goods as the Respondents’ ‘GRD Powder’ and ‘GRD Mix’. It was thus submitted that the said judgment supports the Revenue’s stand that goods of this nature are understood in common parlance as beverages. 10. Further, reliance was placed on Hamdard (Wakf) Laboratories Vs. Commissioner, Commercial Tax, U.P., 2026 SCC OnLine SC 306, wherein this Court held that resort to the residuary entry is impermissible where a specific entry employs the expression ‘including’, as such expression expands the scope of the entry without quantitative or form threshold. It was pointed out that Entry 20(ii) in the present case contains the expression ‘including’, thereby enlarging the ambit of ‘Non-Alcoholic Drinks and Beverages’ by illustrative enumeration. 11. Lastly, reliance was placed on S.Samuel M.D., Harrisons Malayalam Vs. Union of India, (2004) 1 SCC 256, wherein this Court held that an undefined term must be construed in its common parlance or commercial sense, and that ‘tea’ is not a foodstuff, thereby affirming the settled distinction between food and drink. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS 12. Per contra, Mr. Vivek Sarin, learned senior counsel for the Respondents stated that a plain reading of the scheme of the 1994 Act makes it evident that the levy under the said Act is confined to the sale of goods expressly specified therein. Section 2 (d) defines ‘Commerce’ and ‘Commercial’ to mean sale and purchase of goods. Section 9 of the 1994 Act stipulates that tax shall be payable by the dealer under this Act ‘relating to the goods specified in Schedule II’. Thus, the charging provision itself restricts the levy to goods enumerated in Schedule II. Any attempt to bring within its ambit a commodity not specifically mentioned would amount to enlarging the scope of the taxing statute beyond its express language, which is impermissible in law. 13. He contended that goods which do not fall within a specific entry necessarily travel to the residuary entry and cannot be forced into an inapposite specific entry merely to attract a higher rate of tax. He further pointed out that Entry 20(ii) makes no reference to use or adaptation, and therefore, the end use of a good cannot be read into the entry. In support of his submission, he relied upon the judgment in Dunlop India Ltd. vs. Union of India (1976) 2 SCC 241, wherein this Court has held that end use of an article is absolutely irrelevant for classification purposes. 14. Learned counsel for the Respondents further submitted that this Court in Hamdard Wakf Laboratories vs. Collector of Central Excise (1999) 6 SCC 617, has held that beverages, broadly speaking, are liquids for drinking, other than water, which may be consumed neat or after dilution. It was urged that, therefore, for any goods to be classified as a beverage, it is essential that they exist in liquid form at the time of the taxable event. REASONING TAXING STATUTES ARE TO BE STRICTLY CONSTRUED 15. It is settled law that taxing statutes are to be strictly construed. The Court cannot assume any intention beyond what is manifest in the plain language of the provision. Nothing can be read in or implied from the statute and unless the language suffers from any ambiguity or absurdity, the Court must adopt a literal interpretation1. TAXING INCIDENCE IS THE NATURE OF THE GOOD AS IT IS SOLD 16. This Court is further of the opinion that the taxable event is the act of supply and the incidence of taxation is determined by the nature of the good in the form in which it is sold2. 17. Undoubtedly, tax rates vary depending on whether the good is classified as a powder, concentrate or beverage. However, the tax authorities are bound to levy tax based on the form of the good at the time of sale. The tax authorities are bound to look at what is supplied and not at what is the ‘end use’ of the good. For instance, if a powder mix such as protein powder is sold, the tax applicable to powders alone can be levied. Conversely, if a ready-to-drink beverage such as bottled cold coffee or a packaged proteins shake is sold, the tax applicable to beverages must be imposed. 18. The subsequent use by the consumer in mixing the powder with water or milk to prepare a drink does not alter the taxable event, for liability is determined at the point of supply. It is equally conceivable that protein powder may be consumed in liquid form after mixing with milk or water, or alternatively, it may be used in the preparation of an Indian milk-based fudge (barfi) and consumed in solid form. 19. Consequently, the classification which determines the applicable rate of tax must be based on the form of the good at the time of sale and not on the manner in which the consumer may later choose to use it. COMMON THREAD RUNNING THROUGH ALL THE ITEMS IN ENTRY 20(ii) IS THAT THEY ARE LIQUIDS 20. In Entry 20(ii), the expression ‘beverages’is followed by ‘syrups, cordials, distilled juice, ark and essences’, all of which denote liquids or liquid preparations. The common thread running through these enumerated items is that they are liquid substances capable of being bottled, stored and consumed or otherwise utilised in liquid form. ENTRY 20(ii) DOES NOT MAKE ANY REFERENCE TO THE USE OF GOODS 21. Further, Entry 20(ii) does not make any reference to the ‘end use´ of the goods. Consequently, what has been specified by the legislature is classification of goods not by reference to its end use, but by reference to their physical characteristic and form. Accordingly, this Court is of the view that the identity of the goods at the time of taxable event, namely, sale, must be the determinative factor for the purpose of classification under the taxing statute. COMMON PARLANCE TEST, FUNCTIONAL CHARACTER TEST OR BASIC NATURE TEST CANNOT BE APPLIED TO IMPORT END USER CONCEPT IN PRESENT APPEALS 22. This Court is of the opinion that common parlance test, functional test or basic nature test cannot be applied to import end use concept to override or bypass explicit or implicit statutory guidance, particularly, where the language of the entry is clear and unambiguous-like in the present appeals. RULE OF EJUSDEM GENERIS 23. The rule of ejusdem generis requires a general word to be construed in the context of specific words accompanying it. The expression ‘beverages’ must derive its meaning from the class constituted by these associated words and cannot be interpreted in isolation so as to encompass goods of an altogether different character or physical form. 24. Consequently, this Court is in agreement with the submission of learned senior counsel for the Respondents that the goods which do not answer the description of a specific entry must necessarily fall within the residuary entry. They cannot be forced into an inapposite specific entry merely to attract a higher rate of tax. JUDGMENTS CITED BY APPELLANTS ARE INAPPLICABLE 25. This Court is of the view that the judgments in Pioma Industries (supra) and S. Samuel M.D (supra) are clearly distinguishable and inapplicable to the facts of the present case. 26. In Pioma Industries (supra), the issue was whether ‘Rasna’ is taxable as a ‘beverage’ or ‘non-alcoholic drink’. However, there was no adjudication as to whether ‘Rasna’ was classifiable as a beverage as the matter was remanded to the Tribunal. Moreover, the Entry in question, namely, Entry 87 contained an explanation which specifically included ‘powders, tablets and concentrates used for the preparation of non-alcoholic drinks’. It is thus evident that the Legislature, despite being aware that powders could be expressly included in the category of non-alcoholic beverages by way of deeming fiction, chose not to do so in the present case. 27. In S. Samuel M.D (supra), there was no competing entries. The issue was whether ‘tea’ is a foodstuff or not. In that context, this Court held that tea is a beverage produced by steeping tea leaves in boiled water and that tea is not food. This Court in S. Samuel M.D (supra) did not adjudicate whether ‘tea leaves’, existing in the form of granules/powder, could themselves be classified as a beverage. 28. In Hamdard (Wakf) Laboratories Vs. Commissioner, Commercial Tax, U.P., 2026 SCC OnLine SC 306, the sharbat existed in liquid form and not powder form. It was, therefore, possible to classify the same under the entry of beverage, which is not the case here. In any event the expression ‘including’ cannot be taken to mean ‘all encompassing’ and covering ‘all and sundry goods’. As mentioned hereinabove, the expression ‘beverages’ must be construed in the context of specific words accompanying it and cannot be interpreted so as to encompass goods of an altogether different character or physical form. CONCLUSION 29. From the aforesaid, it is apparent that the goods in the present case, at the time of taxable event, exist in the form of powder and biscuit. While it is possible that the goods may ultimately be used to make a beverage or a solid preparation, at the point of taxable event, they remain in powder form. Consequently, they do not fall within the expression ‘beverage’. 30. Before parting with the present appeals, this Court places on record its appreciation for the assistance rendered by all the learned counsel, who appeared, in particular, Mr. Vivek Sarin, learned senior counsel, Mr. Arkaj Kumar, learned counsel and Mr. Bhargava V. Desai, learned counsel. 31. The appeals are, accordingly, dismissed. 32. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Notes: 1 In Mathuram Agrawal v. State of Madhya Pradesh, (1999) 8 SCC 667, the Supreme Court has held, “….The intention of the legislature in a taxation statute is to be gathered from the language of the provisions particularly where the language is plain and unambiguous. In a taxing Act it is not possible to assume any intention or governing purpose of the statute more than what is stated in the plain language. It is not the economic results sought to be obtained by making the provision which is relevant in interpreting a fiscal statute. Equally impermissible is an interpretation which does not follow from the plain, unambiguous language of the statute. Words cannot be added to or substituted so as to give a meaning to the statute which will serve the spirit and intention of the legislature. The statute should clearly and unambiguously convey the three components of the tax law i.e. the subject of the tax, the person who is liable to pay the tax and the rate at which the tax is to be paid. If there is any ambiguity regarding any of these ingredients in a taxation statute then there is no tax in law. Then it is for the legislature to do the needful in the matter.” 2 The Supreme Court in Commissioner of Central Excise, Delhi v. Carrier Aircon Ltd. (2006) 5 SCC 596 has held, ‘End use to which the product is put to by itself cannot be determinative of the classification of the product… There are number of factors which have to be taken into consideration for determining the classification of a product. For the purposes of classification the relevant factors inter alia are statutory fiscal entry, the basic character, function and use of the goods. When a commodity falls within a tariff entry by virtue of the purpose for which it is put to (sic produced), the end use to which the product is put to, cannot determine the classification of that product.’ Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,933 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty Upper Turnover Filter Valid for Transfer Pricing Comparables: Karnataka HC October 6, 2026 Karnataka HC Restores Section 154 Rectification for Wrong Return Entry October 6, 2026 AO Cannot Start Reassessment Scrutiny Before Deciding Objections: Bombay HC October 6, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Supreme Court Clears Accused as ₹5,000 Bribe Demand Not Proved October 6, 2026 Punjab & Haryana HC Quashes AY 2015-16 Reassessment Notices Issued After 1 April 2021 October 6, 2026 NCLT Mumbai Orders Simons Shipping Liquidation After CIRP Ends Without Resolution Plan October 6, 2026 Borrower’s Balance-Sheet Acknowledgments Bind Corporate Guarantor under Guarantee Clause: NCLT Hyderabad October 6, 2026 Personal Guarantor Cannot Misuse Section 94 to Stall SARFAESI Recovery: NCLAT October 6, 2026 Arbitration Clause in Articles Independent Contract; Calcutta HC Protects Shareholder Voting Rights October 6, 2026