Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: SEBI Chairman delivered a keynote address and participated in a high-level panel discussion during Global Fintech Fest (GFF) 2026 in Mumbai. In his keynote address, titled “Growing Fast, Growing Safe: Regulating a Large and Technology-Intensive Securities Market”, he highlighted the role of predictive supervision through SupTech and artificial intelligence, the Demat 2.0 corporate bond tokenisation pilot, and the importance of cyber and quantum resilience. The central emphasis was that innovation in the securities market should be allowed to scale without risk increasing at the same pace. The Chairman also participated in a panel discussion titled “Innovation with Stability: Regulating Capital Markets in the Age of AI, Tokenisation and Quantum Technology”. The panel included Hanzo van Beusekom, Member of the Executive Board of the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM), Netherlands and Chair of the IOSCO Fintech Task Force, and Tajinder Singh, Deputy Secretary General, IOSCO. The discussion was moderated by Dilip Asbe, MD & CEO, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). The panel examined how regulation can facilitate innovation while safeguarding investors and maintaining market integrity. Key subjects included AI accountability and safeguards, predictive supervision through SupTech, critical technology dependencies, tokenisation, changing market structures, investor education, and cyber and quantum resilience. Securities and Exchange Board of India PR No.55/2026 Chairman, SEBI delivered a keynote address and participated in a panel discussion during Global Fintech Fest 2026 During Global Fintech Fest (GFF) 2026 in Mumbai, Chairman, SEBI, today delivered a keynote address on “Growing Fast, Growing Safe: Regulating a Large and Technology-Intensive Securities Market”. He highlighted predictive supervision through SupTech and AI, the Demat 2.0 corporate bond tokenisation pilot, and cyber and quantum resilience, emphasising that innovation must scale without risk scaling at the same pace. Chairman, SEBI, also participated in a high level panel discussion on “Innovation with Stability: Regulating Capital Markets in the Age of AI, Tokenisation and Quantum Technology”. The other panellists included Mr. Hanzo van Beusekom, Member of the Executive Board, Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM), Netherlands and Chair of International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Fintech Task Force and Mr. Tajinder Singh, Deputy Secretary General, IOSCO. The discussion was moderated by Mr. Dilip Asbe, MD & CEO, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). The panel discussed how regulation can enable innovation while protecting investors and market integrity. The discussion covered AI accountability and safeguards, predictive supervision through SupTech, critical technology dependencies, tokenisation and changing market structures, investor education, and cyber and quantum resilience. Mumbai September 10, 2026 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Artificial IntelligenceSEBISEBI notifications Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in SEBI Converting a Privately Placed InvIT into a Publicly offered InvIT: Is Trust Deed Ready? September 10, 2026 Failed Buyback Alone Cannot Establish Fraud Without Corroborative Evidence: SC September 10, 2026 SEBI Consultation Paper Proposes Stronger Governance Framework for MIIs September 9, 2026 SEBI Revises Commodity Derivatives Position Limits and Penalties for Violations September 9, 2026 Listing Window Is Opening: Why InvITs & REITs Should Look at Public Listing Again September 9, 2026 SEBI Extends Accredited Investor Compliance Timeline for Angel Funds to March 31, 2027 September 8, 2026