Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 15014 Case Name Anya Traders Vs Assessment Unit Income Tax Department & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Table of Contents▸ Anya Traders Vs Assessment Unit Income Tax Department & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) Background and Challenge Before the High Court High Court’s Reasoning and Appellate Remedy Supreme Court’s Order Final Ruling and Effect Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Anya Traders Vs Assessment Unit Income Tax Department & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) Summary: The Supreme Court dismissed the special leave petition filed by Anya Traders, stating that it found no good ground and reason to interfere with the impugned High Court judgment/order. The underlying writ petition challenged an assessment order dated 24.03.2026. Before the High Court, the petitioner argued that the Assessing Officer had committed a manifest error of law by making additions concerning transactions that did not relate to the assessment year in question. The High Court considered that resolving the grievance would require appreciation of facts and evidence, effectively turning the writ court into an appellate forum. It held that these objections should be advanced before the Appellate Authority, which was empowered by law to examine them. Consequently, the High Court declined interference under Article 226 and dismissed the writ petition. It nevertheless directed that, if the petitioner preferred an appeal within two weeks from the date of its order, the Appellate Authority should consider the appeal on merits without raising any objection of limitation. The Supreme Court’s supplied order records only its refusal to interfere and dismissal of the special leave petition, together with disposal of pending applications. It does not provide separate reasoning on the disputed additions or determine whether the transactions belonged to the relevant assessment year. The High Court’s dismissal and conditional appellate protection therefore remain undisturbed. Background and Challenge Before the High Court Anya Traders challenged the assessment order dated 24.03.2026 through a writ petition. Its counsel submitted that the Assessing Officer had made additions relating to transactions outside the assessment year under consideration and characterised this as a manifest error of law. The supplied material does not identify the assessment year, quantify the additions or set out the disputed transactions. High Court’s Reasoning and Appellate Remedy After hearing the petitioner’s counsel, the High Court observed that the petitioner was seeking to convert the Court into an appellate forum for appreciating facts and evidence. It considered that the grievance and arguments should be presented before the statutory Appellate Authority. The High Court found no basis for exercising its extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India and dismissed the petition. It directed that an appeal filed within two weeks from the date of the High Court’s order should be considered on merits without an objection of limitation. The petition and pending applications were disposed of. Supreme Court’s Order The Supreme Court stated that it found no good ground and reason to interfere with the impugned High Court judgment/order. It accordingly dismissed the special leave petition and disposed of pending applications, if any. The supplied Supreme Court order does not record the parties’ submissions or furnish additional substantive reasoning concerning the assessment. Final Ruling and Effect The Supreme Court’s dismissal leaves the High Court’s order undisturbed. The disputed additions were not adjudicated on merits in the supplied court extracts. The High Court’s protection against a limitation objection was expressly conditional upon filing an appeal within two weeks from its own order; the Supreme Court’s supplied order grants no fresh appellate period. Read HC Judgment in this case: Anya Traders Vs Assessment Unit Income Tax Department & Anr. (Delhi High Court) FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER We find no good ground and reason to interfere with the impugned judgment/order passed by the High Court. The special leave petition is, accordingly, dismissed. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,269 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Income Tax Claims Outside Approved IBC Resolution Plan Do Not Survive: Madras HC October 7, 2026 Escaped Income Below ₹50 Lakh Invalidates Reassessment Beyond Three Years: Bombay HC October 7, 2026 Affixture at Wrong Address Invalidates Section 148 Notice Service: ITAT Delhi October 7, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Allahabad HC Stays Society Audit Order Over ₹1.50 Lakh Plus GST Fee October 7, 2026 Section 32A Clean Slate Applies to Going-Concern Sale During Liquidation: NCLAT Delhi October 7, 2026 Tax Demand Outside Approved IBC Resolution Plan Stands Extinguished: Calcutta HC October 7, 2026 NCLAT Delhi Upholds ₹1 Crore Claim Based on Consent Terms in CIRP October 7, 2026 SARFAESI Enforcement: Stage-Wise Checklist for Borrowers October 7, 2026 Section 17 SARFAESI Act: DRT Powers, Limits, Limitation & Remedies October 7, 2026