Summary: Section 52 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 establishes the Tax Collection at Source (TCS) framework for electronic commerce operators facilitating taxable supplies by other registered suppliers where consideration is collected by the operator. The provision functions both as a tax-collection mechanism and as an information trail enabling the GST administration to reconcile supplies reported by marketplace sellers with transactions recorded by e-commerce platforms. The article examines the statutory definition of an electronic commerce operator, compulsory registration requirements, computation of the net value of taxable supplies, deposit of TCS, filing of Form GSTR-8 and credit of the amount to the supplier’s electronic cash ledger. It traces the reduction of the TCS rate from 1% to 0.5% with effect from 10 July 2024 and distinguishes the collection mechanism under Section 52 from the deemed-supplier liability imposed on operators for specified services under Section 9(5). It further discusses penalties for non-compliance, the Karnataka High Court rulings concerning the limits of liability of operators, and CBIC Circular No. 194/06/2023-GST dealing with transactions involving multiple e-commerce operators, particularly under ONDC. The article also considers practical issues including working-capital friction, enforcement gaps, multi-operator business models, reconciliation between Sections 9(5) and 52, and the disproportionate compliance burden potentially faced by smaller digital platforms.India’s e-commerce sector has grown from a retail curiosity into a multi-lakh-crore marketplace economy, with millions of small sellers routing their supplies through platforms such as Amazon, Flipkart, Meesho and the government-backed Open Network for Digital Commerce (ONDC). This shift has changed not just how goods are sold, but how the tax administration tracks who is selling what, to whom, and for how much. Section 52 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (“CGST Act”) is the legislature’s answer to this tracking problem. It requires e-commerce operators (ECOs) to collect a small percentage of tax at source (“TCS”) on every taxable supply they facilitate, and to report it to the department before the supplier even files its own return. In effect, the marketplace becomes an extension of the tax administration. This article explains how Section 52 works, traces the key notifications and judicial developments that have shaped it, and critically examines the practical compliance issues it throws up for sellers, operators and the department alike. Table of Contents▸ Statutory Framework Who is an "E-Commerce Operator"? How TCS Under Section 52 Works Rate of TCS: A Quick History Section 52 vs. Section 9(5): Two Different Roles Penalty for Non-Compliance Judicial Precedents Recent Circulars and Policy Developments Critical Analysis: Practical Implications 1. A sound rationale, but real cash-flow friction 2. The enforcement gap exposed by Hiveloop 3. Definitional elasticity in multi-operator models 4. The Section 9(5)/Section 52 overlap as a compliance trap 5. Compliance load on smaller and emerging operators Conclusion and Way Forward Show all 15 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Statutory Framework Who is an “E-Commerce Operator”? Section 2(45) of the CGST Act defines an “electronic commerce operator“ as any person who owns, operates or manages a digital or electronic facility or platform for electronic commerce. The definition is platform-neutral it does not matter whether the operator itself sells anything. A person who merely provides the marketplace infrastructure (search, cataloguing, payment collection and settlement) qualifies as an ECO, even where every product sold on the platform belongs to a third-party seller. Two consequences follow. First, under Section 24(x), every ECO required to collect TCS must obtain GST registration regardless of turnover the usual small-business threshold exemption does not apply. Second, a person selling only its own goods or services through its own website is generally not an ECO for TCS purposes, since there is no third-party supplier whose consideration is being collected. How TCS Under Section 52 Works 1. Every ECO (not being an agent) that collects consideration for supplies made through its platform by other registered suppliers must collect TCS, at the notified rate, on the “net value of taxable supplies”made through it. 2. “Net value” is the aggregate value of taxable supplies (excluding exempt supplies) made through the operator by a registered supplier, reducedby the value of supplies returned during that month significant in categories such as fashion and footwear where return rates run high. 3. The amount collected must be paid to the Government within ten days after the end of the month of collection. 4. The ECO must file a monthly statement in Form GSTR-8 giving details of outward supplies and TCS collected, and an annual statement thereafter. 5. Once GSTR-8 is filed, the TCS reflects in the supplier’s electronic cash ledger and can be used to discharge output tax liability or claimed as a refund. Rate of TCS: A Quick History The rate was originally fixed at 1% with effect from 1 October 2018 (Notification No. 52/2018-Central Tax). Pursuant to the recommendations of the 53rd GST Council meeting (22 June 2024), it was halved to 0.5% with effect from 10 July 2024 (Notification No. 15/2024-Central Tax, with parallel amendments under the IGST and UTGST notifications). Notification Effective From Rate of TCS Remarks No. 52/2018-Central Tax 01.10.2018 1% (0.5% CGST + 0.5% SGST, or 1% IGST) Original rate at introduction of Section 52 No. 15/2024-Central Tax 10.07.2024 0.5% (0.25% CGST + 0.25% SGST, or 0.5% IGST) Rate halved pursuant to 53rd GST Council meeting (22.06.2024) Section 52 vs. Section 9(5): Two Different Roles A frequent source of confusion, even among practitioners, is the overlap between Section 52 and Section 9(5) of the CGST Act. The two serve entirely different functions, even though the same operator may attract both provisions for different transactions: Section 52 (TCS): The operator merely facilitates a supply made by a registered third-party supplier and collects tax on the supplier’s behalf. The primary GST liability remains that of the supplier. Section 9(5) (deemed supplier): For specified services notified by the Government cab aggregation, restaurant food delivery, accommodation through unregistered hosts the operator is deemed to be the supplier and pays the entire GST itself. Sellers supplying through a Section 9(5) category service do not receive TCS credit in the ordinary sense, since the operator is discharging its own liability rather than collecting on the seller’s behalf. Confusing the two regimes is a common and avoidable source of reconciliation errors. Penalty for Non-Compliance Failure to collect TCS, or failure to deposit TCS collected, attracts a penalty under Section 122(1B) equal to 10% of the tax amount involved, subject to a minimum of ₹10,000, plus interest at 18% per annum on delayed deposit. A clarificatory amendment via the Finance (No. 2) Act, 2024 confirmed that this enhanced penalty regime applies specifically to TCS defaults under Section 52, and not to operators discharging liability under Section 9(5). Judicial Precedents Litigation on Section 52 has been relatively limited compared to other GST provisions, but two recent Karnataka High Court rulings have exposed a structural gap the absence of a statutory mechanism to recover TCS from a defaulting operator. Case Citation Held Hiveloop Technology Pvt. Ltd. v. Additional Director, DGGI Karnataka HC, W.P. No. 21130 of 2022 (T-RES) An ECO that does not itself collect consideration for a supply falls outside Section 52. Since GST law has no deeming fiction akin to Section 201 of the Income Tax Act, the ECO cannot be treated as an assessee-in-default and proceeded against under Section 74. NCN Pearson Inc. v. Union of India W.P. No. 7635 of 2024 (order dated 16.07.2025) Invocation of Section 74 requires clear jurisdictional facts such as wilful suppression; their absence vitiates the notice. In Hiveloop Technology, the Department had invoked Section 74 against an operator that had not itself collected the consideration for the supplies in question, effectively treating the operator as personally liable for the underlying tax. The Karnataka High Court rejected this, holding that Section 52 is triggered only when the operator actually collects the consideration, and that GST law, unlike Section 201 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, contains no deeming fiction for TCS defaults. The Department cannot therefore shift the supplier’s substantive tax liability onto the operator merely because the operator failed in its collection role. Recent Circulars and Policy Developments CBIC Circular No. 194/06/2023-GST (17.07.2023): Clarifies that where multiple ECOs are involved in a single transaction typically under the ONDC “buyer-side/seller-side” model the Section 52 compliance obligation, including TCS collection, rests on the supplier-side ECOthat finally releases payment to the supplier. Rate rationalisation (2024): The halving of the TCS rate was explicitly aimed at easing the working-capital burden on sellers, following representations from industry. Return-system integration: With the phased rollout of the Invoice Management System (IMS), TCS credit flows (via the electronic cash ledger) must be kept analytically separate from ordinary purchase-invoice flows (via IMS/GSTR-2B), since an ECO is not a “supplier” to the seller for IMS purposes even though it collects TCS. Critical Analysis: Practical Implications Section 52 can be understood as a toll booth on the digital highway: every time a registered seller’s goods pass through a marketplace and money changes hands, the marketplace skims off a small percentage and remits it directly to the Government before the seller ever sees that portion of the payment. The seller is not out of pocket the amount is credited to the electronic cash ledger and can be used like cash to pay GST, or refunded if unused. The real purpose of the provision is not the modest 0.5% collection itself, but the data trail it creates, letting the department cross-check what a seller declares against what the marketplace reports having paid it. 1. A sound rationale, but real cash-flow friction The transparency rationale is difficult to fault e-commerce generates far more electronic evidence of a transaction than an offline sale. But the cash-flow concern raised by MSME sellers deserves to be taken seriously. Even at 0.5%, a seller operating on thin margins in a high-volume category has a portion of every sale withheld until the operator files GSTR-8 and the credit reflects in the cash ledger, a process that is not always instantaneous when an operator is late in filing. 2. The enforcement gap exposed by Hiveloop The Karnataka High Court’s reasoning is significant beyond its facts. It confirms that Section 52 imposes a collection obligation without a corresponding, codified recovery mechanism when that obligation is not honoured. This correctly stops the Department from converting a collection agent into a primary taxpayer by executive fiat, but it also leaves open a genuine question: what is the actual enforcement pathway when an operator defaults? Section 122(1B) penalises the operator’s own default but does not, by itself, restore the tax trail Section 52 was designed to create prompting some practitioners to describe the provision, in its present form, as somewhat toothless against a non-compliant operator. 3. Definitional elasticity in multi-operator models ONDC-style transactions, where a buyer-facing app and a seller-facing app are operated by two different entities, tested the traditional one-operator-one-transaction assumption underlying Section 52. Circular No. 194/06/2023-GST fills this gap sensibly, but it does so through an administrative circular rather than a statutory amendment a distinction that may matter as network-based commerce models, with intermediaries and sub-aggregators, continue to proliferate. 4. The Section 9(5)/Section 52 overlap as a compliance trap Sellers who supply goods through a marketplace (Section 52) and also occasionally provide services notified under Section 9(5) through the same or an affiliated platform frequently see reconciliation software apply TCS logic uniformly across both categories, leading to overstated credit claims that surface as mismatches on scrutiny. Clearer, transaction-level labelling by operators indicating the specific statutory basis for each line item would meaningfully reduce this friction. 5. Compliance load on smaller and emerging operators Section 24(x)’s blanket registration requirement, with no turnover threshold, applies with equal force to large marketplaces and to smaller, sector-specific or hyper local digital platforms. For the latter, the fixed costs of registration, monthly GSTR-8 filing, vendor GSTIN verification and reconciliation are proportionately far heavier, potentially discouraging the last-mile digitisation of small retail that other government initiatives are meant to encourage. Conclusion and Way Forward Section 52 has evolved from a static 1% levy into a more calibrated 0.5% mechanism, refined by CBIC clarifications on multi-operator transactions and tempered by the 2024 rate reduction. It remains a well-targeted transparency tool for a sector where conventional audit trails are thin. At the same time, the Hiveloop line of reasoning has surfaced a genuine structural gap a collection obligation without a matching recovery mechanism and the coexistence of Section 52 with the deemed-supplier regime under Section 9(5) continues to generate avoidable confusion. Going forward, the following measures merit consideration: 1. A narrowly drafted, safeguarded recovery mechanism for genuine cases of wilful non-remittance by an operator, so that the issue need not be litigated afresh in every High Court. 2. Elevating the multi-operator allocation rule in Circular No. 194/06/2023-GST from a circular into a rule under the CGST Rules for firmer legal standing. 3. Mandatory transaction-level labelling by operators indicating whether tax was withheld under Section 52 or discharged under Section 9(5). 4. A targeted late-fee incentive on operators for delayed GSTR-8 filing, distinct from the existing Section 122(1B) penalty, to speed up credit flow-through to sellers. 5. Simplified periodicity for very small operators (e.g., quarterly rather than monthly GSTR-8 filing below a defined threshold) to ease the disproportionate compliance load on smaller platforms. Section 52 remains, on balance, one of the quietly successful compliance innovations of the GST regime but its next decade will depend on whether the legislature closes the structural gaps that a decade of platform-economy growth, and a handful of pointed judicial decisions, have now brought into clear view. ****** Disclaimer: This article is for general informational purposes only and reflects the legal position as understood at the time of writing. It does not constitute legal or tax advice. Readers should verify the current statutory text, notifications and case law before relying on this analysis, and are advised to consult a qualified GST practitioner for transaction-specific guidance. Author: Kartika Mahi | Lovely Professional University Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTTCS Author Info Name: Kartika Mahi Qualification: Student - Others Location: Una, Himachal Pradesh Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Composition Scheme Under GST: Simplified Compliance Or Limited Tax Flexibility? September 22, 2026 Merger-Related ITC Dispute Requires Division Bench Hearing: GSTAT Chennai September 22, 2026 Uttarakhand HC Quashes GST Cancellation Based on Vague Fraud Charge September 22, 2026 Madras High Court Allows SEZ Refund of ISD-Distributed IGST Credit September 22, 2026 Delhi HC Declines Interference in GST Audit File Transfer to Anti-Evasion Wing September 22, 2026 Same GST Officer Cannot Audit and Adjudicate: Karnataka HC September 22, 2026