GST input tax credit on group insurance to boost coverage shivani shinde Mumbai, 6 October The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council is likely to pro- pose widening the definition of export of services and easing refund rules. The move could benefit Indian information technology (IT), consulting, engineering and other service exporters by making it easier to claim back GST paid on busi- ness inputs. The proposal seeks to remove some existing restric- tions around overseas branches and services per- formed in India for foreign cus- tomers, while allowing faster refunds of GST paid on inputs. This is likely to make services exports more competitive. Under the proposed mech- anism, 90 per cent of eligible refund claims could be released upfront after a risk-based check, with the balance settled subsequently. The first change the GST Council proposed con- cerns the requirement and role of branch offices. “The defini- tion of an export required that the supplier and the recipient not be establishments of the same person, and a supply routed through the exporter’s own office fell within that description. That condition has been removed. What decides the question now is whether the customer is abroad, and how the exporter has arranged his overseas presence no longer matters,” said the document seen by Business Standard. The Council is proposing changes to work done in India on goods belonging to a foreign client. It will also look into pay- ments. It said: “A clarification will be issued on when export payment counts as received, and by when it must arrive.” The document says these changes will not be restricted to the IT services segment but to a wider export segment like design studios, testing labora- tories and medical transcrip- tion, among others. According to industry players, if the changes are approved, they would give an impetus to IT services players and reduce the tax litigation. “At present thousands of crores are stuck in refund claims,” said an industry executive. One instance of such demand was when India’s second largest IT services player Infosys was served a notice by the Director- ate General of GST Intelligence for ~32,403 crore. Industry body Nasscom has been working with the govern- ment to reduce complexities in the GST treatment of cross- border services. The Centre has issued a series of clarifications over the past few years, includ- ing Circular 210, which addressed a related issue con- cerning services received from overseas-related entities. Ashish Aggarwal, vice- president and head of public policy at Nasscom, said: “The way a business organises its overseas presence should not, by itself, prevent an otherwise qualifying service supplied from India from receiving export treatment. This is impor- tant for competitiveness and to avoid working-capital blockage and litigation, which the indus- try has seen over the years.” vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv More on business-standard.com Middle powers are soft on the US, ‘about right’ with China, survey finds satarupa bhattacharjya New Delhi, 6 October Many Indians, among those who participated in a new Munich Security Conference (MSC) survey of the so-called middle powers, said the gov- ernment is “too accommodat- ing” of China and the United States (US). But a relative majority of respondents expressed optimism about the country’s ability to defend its interests in the world in the next five years. The survey was released ahead of the MSC’s “leaders meeting” in New Delhi over October 4-5 when middle powers were promoted as the “third path” in the interna- tional order. The meeting was a first major event of the MSC in India after years. At a time of global uncertainty, India’s growing relations with the European Union have led to a free-trade agreement that is expected to be formally signed in the coming months. In July, French market research company Ipsos con- ducted the MSC survey among middle powers in the G20 grouping – Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Indonesia, Japan, South Africa, Türkiye and the United King- dom. From each country, on average, 1,000 adult, internet- using participants were selected, based on their educa- tional qualification, among other criteria, for a “represen- tative sample”. For India, the age range was 18 to 54. When the survey asked respondents if their respective government’s approach towards the US government was “too confrontational, too accommodating, or about right”, 41 per cent in India said it was “too accommodating”; 27 per cent said “too confronta- tional”; 21 per cent said “about right”; and 11 per cent said they “don’t know”. In Germany, which is home to the MSC since 1963, the survey found 58 per cent saying the government was “too accommodating” of US President Donald Trump’s administration. India was seventh on the list where par- ticipants seemed upset with their country’s handling of US ties. Italy, the UK, Japan, Canada and France were placed before India. Türkiye, South Africa, Indonesia and Brazil came after. Brazil was the only country where more people found their government’s US approach more confronta- tional than accommodating. To a similar question about China, 34 per cent of the Indian respondents said the government’s approach towards the Chinese govern- ment was “too accommodat- ing”; 28 per cent said “about right”; 25 per sent said “too confrontational”; and 14 per cent didn’t know. In South Africa, 37 per cent said their government was “too accom- modating” but 42 per cent said it was “about right”. The latter is same as many others surveyed. In Japan, 32 per cent said the government’s current China approach was “too confrontational”. In Europe, a relative major- ity said their respective country lost global influence over the past year. Among the “global south” countries sur- veyed, as well as in Canada, more respondents believed their country gained influence than lost it over the same period, according to the survey. In India, it was 65 per cent. Surveyed people in the developing world expressed greater optimism than in the West about their country’s ability to defend its interests in the coming years. In India, 30 per cent of the respondents were “very optimistic”, 38 per cent “somewhat optimistic” and 19 per cent “neither opti- mistic nor pessimistic”. In Ger- many and Japan, they were particularly pessimistic. Sophie Eisentraut, the survey’s overseeing author and head of research at MSC, told Business Standard that while there’s no agreed-upon defini- tion of the geopolitical term, a middle power influences global issues, and the descrip- tion covers a big range, from the Netherlands to India. the munich security conference poll, conducted in 11 countries, found respondents in india saying the government was “too accommodating” of china Easing refund rules may make services exports competitive aathira varier Mumbai, 6 October Allowing input tax credit (ITC) on goods and services tax (GST) for group health and life insurance policies could lower employee coverage costs, narrow the tax disparity with individual plans and expand insurance, experts say. The proposal is among several key reforms likely to be considered at the GST Council meeting in New Delhi on Thursday. While GST on group insur- ance policies will continue, allowing employers to claim ITC will make the tax cost recoverable and eventually benefit employees through lower insurance costs or higher coverage, according to experts. In September 2025, the gov- ernment reduced the 18 per cent GST on individual life and health insurance policies to zero per cent. ITC was also withdrawn for individual pol- icies. However, the 18 per cent GST on group insurance pol- icies was retained. According to the proposal, GST levied on employer-employee insur- ance policies will continue, but employers will be allowed to claim credit for the GST paid instead of treating it as a cost. “Tax is charged on that cover, and until now the busi- ness could not recover it. That tax will now be recoverable as credit. Almost every organised employer provides cover for its workforce, so the cost of pro- viding it comes down,” said a person aware of the proposal. “It has been a long-pending demand from companies to have input tax credit on group health policies. Permitting input tax credit will benefit the beneficiaries. Now, it is a level playing field in terms of tax- ation for retail and group health insurance business. As it reduces cost, it is likely to boost coverage of employees,” an insurance executive said. The group health insurance premium stood at over ~68,000 crore in FY26. Similarly, the life insurance industry collected around ~2.75 trillion in pre- miums from group insurance. However, group term insur- ance includes not only policies provided through employers and other organisations but also credit life insurance pol- icies issued by banks, non- banking finance companies and microfinance institutions. Narendra Bharindwal, president of the Insurance Brokers Association of India, said the proposed move would address the anomaly between retail and corporate health insurance. “While retail health insur- ance became exempt from GST, group health insurance continued to attract 18 per cent GST, and corporates were not allowed to claim ITC on the premium.” The Reserve Bank of India’s six-member Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is widely expected to raise interest rates for the first time since February 2023 when it announces its review on Wednesday, amid continuing geopolitical uncertainties and elevated energy prices. Domestic growth indicators, however, have been resilient so far. Some global central banks, such as the US Federal Reserve, European Central Bank, and Bank of Japan, raised interest rate in September. The MPC will have to balance rising inflation and strong growth against currency and capital-flow pressures, while ensuring that any rate increase is transmitted in spite of surplus liquidity conditions. Anjali Kumari takes a look at some of the data points that the rate-setting panel may consider to take a decision. Will RBI join global central banks in raising interest rates? Forex reserves fall from record high After hitting all-time high of $785.7 billion on September 11, India’s foreign exchange reserves fell around $38 billion in the next three weeks as the RBI sold dollar to stabilise the rupee Recent rate hikes globally Sources: Bloomberg, RBI, NSDL, Mospi; Compiled by Business Standard Research Bureau September 2 The Reserve Bank of New Zealand raised the official cash rate by 25 bps to 2.75%, its second straight hike, with June- quarter inflation at 4.1% September 6 The US Federal Reserve unanimously raised the federal funds rate by 25 bps to 3.75-4%, its first hike since July 2023, in a unanimous vote September 10 The European Central Bank raised its deposit facility rate by 25 bps to 2.50%, its second hike this year, with euro area inflation at 3.3% in August on higher energy prices September 18 The Bank of Japan raised its policy rate by 25 bps to 1.25%, the highest in 31 years, by a 7-2 vote September 29 The Reserve Bank of Australia raised the cash rate by 25 bps to 4.6%, its fourth hike of 2026 and the highest since November 2011 ~ vs $ (inverted scale) Forex reserves ($ bn) India-US bond yield spread narrows The spread between 10-year Indian govt bond and the comparable US treasury yields narrowing, resulting in outflows 8 7 6 5 4 IndiaUS Aug 3,’26Oct 6,’26 6.83 4.68 7.19 5.26 10-year Gsec yield (%) 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 -10,000 Aug ’26Oct ’26 -7,597 285 FPI investments in debt Net flows (~ crore) Growth forecast revision likely The RBI is likely to revise growth and inflation projections for FY27 reflecting the economy’s resilience and high crude oil prices(RBI’s August forecasts) Inflation (Y-o-Y in %) GDP growth (Y-o-Y in %) Crude oil stokes inflation risks Brent crude oil prices are hovering around $100 per barrel, which could stoke inflationary pressure. CPI inflation has increased for four straight months to 4.82% in August Brent crude futures ($/bbl) Repo rate (%) Aug 31,’25 2.0 Sep 30,’25 1.4 Oct 31,’25 0.0 Nov 30,’25 0.5 Dec 31,’25 1.2 Jan 31,’26 2.7 Feb 28,’26 3.2 Mar 31,’26 3.4 Apr 30,’26 3.5 May 31,’26 3.9 Jun 30,’26 4.4 Jul 31,’26 4.5 Aug 31, ’26 4.8 CPI inflation (Y-o-Y in %) Food drives inflation higher(Y-o-Y in %) Increase in CPI inflation was driven by food inflation, which rose to 6%, along with a pickup in fuel and core components (to 4.44%) Excess liquidity drags WACR The RBI needs to align the weighted average call rate (WACR) with the repo rate. The WACR fell to the floor of the rate corridor on multiple occasions due to huge surplus liquidity illustration: ajaya mohanty Weighted average call money rate (%) Growth remains resilient (Y-o-Y in %) Economic growth remained healthy with real GDP grew 7.8% in April-June. Bank credit growth also remained strong while deposit mobilisation picked up due to swap window for FCNR(B) India’s real GDP Bank credit, deposit growth RBI net liquidity injected (~ crore) Injection (+) / absorption (-) FY27 Q2FY27 Q3FY27 Q4FY27 Q1FY28 FY27 Q1FY27 Q2FY27 Q3FY27 Q4FY27 5.0 4.7 5.9 5.5 5.3 6.7 7.0 6.4 6.5 6.8 NBFC credit growth in Aug trails banks; gold loans rise aathira varier Mumbai, 6 October Non-banking financial com- panies (NBFCs) reported 15.8 per cent year-on-year (Y-o-Y) credit growth to ~60.64 trillion in August, compared with 10 per cent in the year-ago period, data released by the Reserve Bank of India showed. NBFCs’ loan growth in August lagged that of commercial banks, which was 18.8 per cent to ~223.87 trillion in August. Retail lending remained a key growth driver, with NBFCs recording faster growth in their retail portfolio. NBFC retail credit grew 22 per cent Y- o-Y to ₹26.48 trillion in August, compared with 13.6 per cent growth a year earlier. Banks’ retail credit grew 16.9 per cent Y-o-Y to ₹72.87 tril- lion, accelerating from 11.9 per cent a year earlier. “Within retail loans, ‘housing loans’ and ‘loans against gold jewel- lery’ segments witnessed accelerated credit growth, while ‘vehicle loans’ main- tained its robust growth with marginal uptick,” the RBI said. Retail credit for NBFCs was driven by 69.1 per cent year- on-year growth in gold loans to ₹3.65 trillion, compared with 46.8 per cent in August 2025. Housing loans grew by 12.1 per cent year-on-year to ₹8.62 tril- lion, compared with 3.8 per cent in August 2025. Loans for consumer dur- ables rose by 56.4 per cent Y-o- Y to ₹77,784 crore, compared with 19.6 per cent growth last year. Growth in vehicle loans was 15.4 per cent, compared with 15 per cent last year. Credit to agriculture and allied activities recorded robust growth of 17.4 per cent year-on-year in August 2026, against 5.1 per cent a year ago. Credit to industry grew marginally to 8.4 per cent Y-o-Y in August 2026, com- pared with 8.3 per cent a year ago. Within industry, credit growth in ‘infrastructure’ remained steady. bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb GST CHANGES ON THE CARDS CENTRE NAME | DAY, DD/MM/YYYY B 0 ECONOMY & PUBLIC AFFAIRS bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb