NOTICE NoticeNo. 20260619-11 NoticeDate 19Jun2026 Category CircularsListedCompanies Segment General Department ListingCompliance-Monitoring Subject UpdateofsinglefilingsystemthroughAPI-basedintegration betweenStockExchanges. Attachments NoAttachment To, The Compliance Officer, All Listed Entities Subject: Update of single filing system through API-based integration between Stock Exchanges This has reference to Exchange notice no. 20240930-60 dated September 30, 2024, with respect to single filing system through API-based integration between Stock Exchanges. In this connection, we are pleased to inform you that the single filing system has been extended for the XBRL filing pertaining to the below mentioned event with effect from June 20, 2026, along with the release of the few new XBRL utilities as mentioned in the below table. At the initial stage, the PDF filings will be considered by the Exchange as compliance under Regulation 30 of the SEBI LODR Regulations 2015. Further, all listed entities would be required to submit the filings in XBRL mode within 24 hours of submission of the said PDF filing. The XBRL utility for the new events mentioned in the table below will be made available at the path Listing Center>> Listing Compliance>>XBRL >> XBRL utility. Further, it may be noted that the said XBRL filing, will also be made available in iXBRL format (readable format) to the listed entities/stakeholders on the website of the Exchange at path https://www.bseindia.com/corporates/ann (selection of announcement type) Further, please note that the XBRL utility and filing of single event of Para B of Part A of Schedule III of SEBI LODR 2015 i.e. Awarding, bagging/ receiving, amendment or termination of awarded/bagged orders/contracts not in the normal course of business, will be discontinued effective June 20, 2026 and will be merged with the single utility of Para B events. With this, the Single filing system through API-based integration shall now be available for below mentioned disclosures: - Particulars Regulation as per SEBI (LODR) Regulations 2015/ SEBI (Depositories & Participants) Regulations 2018 Effective date Type of Listed Companies Only Equity Equity+De bt Exclusively Debt REITs and INVIT 1. Commencement or any postponement in the date of commencement of commercial production or commercial operations of any unit/division 2. (a) Arrangements for strategic, technical, manufacturing, or marketing tie up; or (b) adoption of new line(s) of business; or (c) closure of operation of any unit, division or subsidiary (in entirety or in piecemeal) Regulation 30 - Para B of Part A of Schedule III of SEBI LODR 2015. June 20,2026* √ √ - - 3. Capacity addition or product launch. 4. Awarding, bagging/ receiving, amendment or termination of awarded/bagged orders/contracts not in the normal course of business 5. Agreements (viz. loan agreement(s) or any other agreement(s) which are binding and not in normal course of business) and revision(s) or amendment(s) or termination(s) thereof 6. Disruption of operations of any one or more units or division of the listed entity due to natural calamity (earthquake, flood, fire etc.), force majeure or events such as strikes, lockouts etc 7. Effect(s) arising out of change in the regulatory framework applicable to the listed entity. 8. Pendency of any litigation(s) or dispute(s) or the outcome thereof which may have an impact on the listed entity 9. Frauds or defaults by employees of the listed entity which has or may have an impact on the listed entity. 10.Options to purchase securities including any ESOP/ESPS Scheme 11.Giving of guarantees or indemnity or becoming a surety by whatever named called,] for any third party 12.Granting, withdrawal , surrender , cancellation or suspension of key licenses or regulatory approvals 13.Delay or default in the payment of fines, penalties, dues, etc. to any regulatory, statutory, enforcement or judicial authority. Schedule of analysts or institutional investors meet, Investor Presentation, Transcripts, Audio & Video recording Regulation. 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 15 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR May 29, 2026* √ √ - - Action(s) initiated or orders passed by any regulatory, statutory, enforcement authority or judicial body Regulation. 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 19 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR May 29, 2026* √ √ - - Action(s) taken or orders passed by any regulatory, statutory, enforcement authority or judicial body Regulation. 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 20 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR May 29, 2026* √ √ - - Initiation of Forensic audit Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 17 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR May 05, 2026* √ √ - - Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulation 7 (2 ) of SEBI PIT Regulation May 05, 2026 √ √ - √ Outcome of Board Meeting for Dividend, Buyback, Bonus and Voluntary Delisting events Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 4 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR April 25, 2026* √ √ - - Agreements/Contracts/Ar rangements/ MOU- Para A of Schedule III of LODR; Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 5 and 5A of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Notice of Shareholders Meeting. Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 12 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process events Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 16 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Issuance/Allotment/Alter ation/Restriction on transferability of securities- Para A Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 2 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Awarding, Bagging/receiving, amendment or termination of orders not in the normal course of business - Para B Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 4 of Para B Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Loss of Share Certificate/Issue of Duplicate Share Certificate Regulation 39 of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Annual Report- XBRL Regulation 34 of SEBI LODR April 20, 2026* √ √ - - Acquisition/Amalgamatio n/Merger/De-merger /Sale or disposal/Other Restructuring; Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 1 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Change in directors, key managerial personnel (Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary etc.), senior management, Auditor and Compliance Officer, Registrar to an issue and share transfer agent Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 7 and 8 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR Note: Please note the utility provides an option to submit the details of resignation and the resignation letter(s) as required under sub-para 7A, 7B and 7C of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Resignation of Statutory Auditor Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 7A of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Resignation of Independent Director, Director, KMP, SMP, Compliance Officer Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR read with sub-para 7B, 7C of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Regulation 34(2)(f) of SEBI LODR March 31, 2026** √ √ - - Prior Intimation for Board Meeting Regulation 29 of SEBI LODR March 07, 2026* √ √ - - Closure of Trading Window SEBI PIT Regulations √ √ - - Fraud/Default/Arrest Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR, sub-para 6 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR February 21, 2026* √ √ - - Corporate Debt Restructuring Regulation 30 of SEBI LODR, sub-para 9 and10 of Para A Part A Schedule III of SEBI LODR √ √ - - Resolution plan/ /Restructuring in relation to loans/borrowings from banks/financial institutions (Inter- Creditors Agreement) and One time settlement (OTS) √ √ - - Issue Summary Document (ISD)- Buyback- Open and Tender Route SEBI Circular on Introduction of Issue Summary Document (ISD) and dissemination of issue advertisements √ √ - - Integrated Filing- Financials 23(9), Reg 30 r/w Section V-B of the Master circular, 32(1) & 33(3) January 03, 2026 √ √ shall be communicat ed later shall be communicat ed later Annual Secretarial Compliance Report 24A (2) September 15, 2025 √ √ shall be communicat ed later shall be communicat ed later Integrated Filing (Governance) 13 (3), 27 (2) & 30 March 01, 2025 √ √ shall be communicat ed later shall be communicat ed later Meetings of shareholders and Voting Results 44 (3) December 28, 2024 √ √ - - Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit Report 76 November 15, 2024 √ √ - - Corporate Governance Report 27 (2) October 26, 2024 Merged with Integrated Filing- √ shall be communicat ed later shall be communicat ed later Governance pursuant to the SEBI Circular dated December 31, 2024. Investor Grievance Report 13 (3) October 01, 2024 √ shall be communicat ed later shall be communicat ed later *Please note that the listed entities will continue the PDF filing of the aforesaid events of Regulation 29, Regulation 30, Regulation 34(1)(a), Regulation 39 of SEBI LODR and disclosure for Trading Window at both the Exchanges and the same will not be covered under single filing until further notice. Further, please note that presently Regulation 29, Regulation 30, Regulation 34, Regulation 39 of SEBI LODR disclosures and disclosure of Trading Window are covered in Single filing to the limited extent mentioned in table above (XBRL events), for all the other events (not included above) listed entities will be required to make submissions (i.e. both PDF and XBRL, wherever applicable) on all Exchanges separately. **Please note that the listed entities will continue the PDF filing of the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report, forming part of the annual report as per Regulation 34(2)(f) of SEBI LODR, at both the Exchanges and the same will not be covered under single filing until further notice. Since the aforesaid implementation is being aimed at enabling single filing system, the Listed Entities are requested to avoid multiple filings of the same disclosure on both the Exchanges. In case any Exchange seeks any clarification post submission, for any queries/clarifications, the Listed Entity shall be required to respond to the Exchange which has sought the clarification. The listed entities are requested to take note of the above and comply accordingly. In case of any queries concerning the captioned subject, please reach out on BSE helpdesk numbers 022-69158560 / 45720460 / 4570660 or send an email to bse.regulation30@bseindia.com Yours faithfully Jayshree Soni Tanvi Kapre Deputy Vice President Manager Listing Compliance and Operations Listing Compliance and Operations