Summary: The Composition Levy under GST is an optional compliance mechanism designed primarily for eligible small taxpayers who may find the regular GST framework administratively burdensome. Governed principally by Section 10 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 and the relevant CGST Rules, the scheme permits qualifying registered persons to discharge GST at prescribed composition rates, subject to turnover limits, eligibility requirements and restrictions. Its principal attraction lies in comparatively simplified compliance, but this advantage comes with significant commercial limitations. A composition taxpayer cannot ordinarily collect GST separately from customers and is not entitled to claim Input Tax Credit on inward supplies, which may increase the effective cost of purchases. Restrictions concerning the nature of supplies and business expansion can also make the scheme less suitable for enterprises seeking wider geographical or business-to-business operations. Composition taxpayers nevertheless remain subject to prescribed payment, return, record-keeping and eligibility requirements, and must move to the regular GST regime when they cease to satisfy applicable conditions. The economic suitability of composition therefore depends not merely on the prescribed tax rate but on the taxpayer’s customer profile, input-tax incidence, geographical operations and growth plans. The scheme ultimately represents a policy trade-off between reducing compliance costs for small businesses and preserving the flexibility available under the regular GST system. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Understanding the Concept of Composition Levy The Legal Framework: Section 10 and the CGST Rules Who can opt for the scheme? The Price of Simplicity: Major Restrictions 1. No collection of GST separately from the customer 2. No Input Tax Credit 3. Restrictions on expansion Compliance Becomes Simpler but Not Zero A Practical Example Critical Analysis: Who Benefits and Who May Face Difficulties? Suggestions Conclusion References Show all 14 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction The Goods and Services Tax (GST) system was introduced in India with the objective of creating a more unified indirect tax structure. However, a uniform tax system does not necessarily mean that every taxpayer should be subjected to the same level of compliance. A small retailer, local manufacturer or small restaurant may not have the resources to maintain the same compliance system as a large corporation. This is where the Composition Levy becomes relevant. The Composition Levy under GST is an optional scheme intended primarily to reduce the compliance burden on eligible small taxpayers. Instead of paying tax under the normal GST mechanism, an eligible taxpayer can pay tax at a prescribed percentage of turnover, subject to specified conditions and restrictions. Section 10 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 provides the principal statutory framework for this scheme.1 At first glance, the scheme appears straightforward: lower compliance requirements in exchange for certain restrictions. But the real question is whether this simplification provides sufficient flexibility to a growing business. The answer depends upon the nature of the business, its customers, input costs and future expansion plans. Thus, the Composition Scheme should not simply be viewed as a “lower tax” option. It is better understood as a different method of GST compliance, where simplicity is obtained by accepting certain limitations. Understanding the Concept of Composition Levy Section 10 of the CGST Act permits an eligible registered person to opt for payment of GST under the composition mechanism instead of the normal levy under Section 9(1). The eligibility of a taxpayer is primarily connected with the prescribed turnover threshold and the conditions contained in the Act and Rules. The turnover limit has evolved considerably since GST was introduced. The CGST Act permits the Government to increase the statutory limit, subject to the recommendations of the GST Council. The currently prescribed threshold for the general composition scheme is ₹1.5 crore for eligible suppliers in most States, with different limits applicable to specified special-category States.2 The scheme is optional. Therefore, merely satisfying the turnover condition does not automatically place a taxpayer under the Composition Levy. The taxpayer must choose to opt for it and must continue to satisfy the statutory conditions. This optional character is important because composition taxation is not universally beneficial. A taxpayer must compare the advantages of simplified compliance with the restrictions imposed by the scheme before making the choice. The Legal Framework: Section 10 and the CGST Rules The basic statutory framework is contained in Section 10 of the CGST Act, 2017, read with the relevant provisions of the CGST Rules. Under Section 10, eligible taxpayers pay tax at prescribed rates rather than following the normal GST mechanism. Rule 7 of the CGST Rules prescribes the applicable composition rates3. For the principal categories covered under Section 10(1) and 10(2), the rates include 0.5% for manufacturers, 2.5% for restaurant suppliers covered by the relevant category, and 0.5% for other eligible suppliers, with the corresponding State/UT tax component operating alongside the Central tax component. The important point is that the percentage under the Composition Levy should not be confused with the GST rate ordinarily applicable to the goods or services supplied by a normal taxpayer. Composition is a separate mechanism for determining the taxpayer’s liability. Who can opt for the scheme? Broadly, the scheme is intended for smaller taxpayers satisfying the turnover and other statutory requirements. However, certain persons are excluded. These include, among others, casual taxable persons and non-resident taxable persons. The statutory framework also restricts composition taxpayers from making certain categories of supplies, including specified inter-State outward supplies, subject to the applicable provisions. Further, the eligibility of different businesses must be examined carefully because the law does not treat every type of supplier identically. The Price of Simplicity: Major Restrictions The biggest attraction of composition taxation is also closely connected to its biggest limitation: the taxpayer gives up certain features available to a normal GST taxpayer. 1. No collection of GST separately from the customer A composition taxpayer cannot collect GST separately from the recipient on supplies made by him. Instead of issuing a normal tax invoice showing separately charged GST, the taxpayer issues a bill of supply in the prescribed manner. This can influence pricing decisions, particularly where the customers are registered businesses. A business customer purchasing from a composition taxpayer may not receive the same input tax credit benefit that it could receive from a normal registered supplier. 2. No Input Tax Credit A composition taxpayer is generally not entitled to claim Input Tax Credit (ITC) on purchases.4 This is one of the most important economic consequences of choosing the scheme. For example, imagine a small furniture trader purchases goods on which GST has been charged. A normal taxpayer may, subject to the statutory conditions, utilise eligible ITC against output tax liability. A composition taxpayer cannot follow that mechanism. The GST paid on inputs can therefore become part of the business cost. This demonstrates why composition tax cannot simply be described as “cheap GST”. The lower prescribed composition rate has to be considered together with the inability to utilise ITC. 3. Restrictions on expansion A business may initially fit comfortably within the composition framework but later begin expanding into other States or business models. Restrictions relating to inter-State outward supplies and other prohibited activities can therefore become commercially significant. For a small local shop serving customers within one State, this may not create a serious difficulty. For a business planning to sell extensively across India, however, the same restriction may become an important reason for moving to the regular GST framework. Compliance Becomes Simpler but Not Zero Another common misconception is that a composition taxpayer has no compliance obligations. This is incorrect. The scheme reduces the compliance burden, but the taxpayer must still maintain appropriate records, make prescribed payments, furnish the applicable statements/returns and comply with the conditions attached to the scheme. The taxpayer also has to ensure that the composition option remains valid. If the taxpayer becomes ineligible, the person is required to move out of the scheme and comply with the normal GST provisions. The CGST Rules provide a mechanism for withdrawal and also prescribe forms and procedures connected with withdrawal or denial of the composition option. Therefore, composition should be understood as simplified compliance rather than compliance- free taxation. A Practical Example Consider Aman, who operates a small stationery and general goods shop in Punjab. His business remains within the prescribed composition turnover threshold and he primarily makes local supplies. If Aman opts for the Composition Levy and satisfies all the statutory conditions, he may benefit from a comparatively simplified tax mechanism. He does not have to separately collect GST from customers and can operate through bills of supply rather than normal tax invoices. However, suppose Aman starts purchasing significant quantities of goods on which GST is charged and plans to expand his business by making substantial inter-State outward supplies. The calculation changes. Although composition may continue to offer administrative simplicity, Aman may find the absence of ITC commercially significant. Moreover, the restrictions on the nature of supplies may interfere with his expansion plans. Moving to the regular GST regime could then become relevant Critical Analysis: Who Benefits and Who May Face Difficulties? Composition Levy is particularly relevant for small businesses whose operations are relatively stable, primarily local and consumer-oriented. A small retailer dealing mainly with final consumers may value simple compliance more than the ability to claim ITC. However, businesses dealing extensively with registered customers may face a different commercial reality. Their customers may prefer suppliers who can provide normal tax invoices and facilitate ITC. Similarly, businesses with significant taxable purchases may consider the loss of ITC an important factor. The scheme can therefore create a tension between administrative simplicity and business flexibility. Another challenge is that the GST framework can be difficult for small taxpayers to understand even when the compliance structure is simplified. Changes in thresholds, notifications, forms and eligibility conditions mean that “small taxpayer” does not necessarily mean “simple legal position.” This suggests that the effectiveness of composition depends not only upon the statutory rate but also upon the taxpayer’s ability to understand and comply with the conditions. Suggestions 1. Greater taxpayer education should accompany the Composition Levy. Small businesses should be clearly informed about both the advantages and restrictions before opting for the scheme. 2. The GST portal and compliance system should continue to provide clear warnings when a taxpayer’s transactions may conflict with composition eligibility. Preventive digital compliance can reduce avoidable disputes. 3. Taxpayers should periodically review their status rather than assuming that once composition is selected, it will always remain suitable. 4. Finally, the policy objective should remain balanced. A composition mechanism should remain simple enough for genuinely small businesses while ensuring that the scheme does not become a source of unintended tax disputes or restrict legitimate business growth. Conclusion The Composition Levy represents an important attempt to make GST workable for small taxpayers. It recognises that a small business cannot always be expected to bear the same compliance burden as a large corporate taxpayer. However, the scheme is not merely a concession or a reduced-rate version of ordinary GST. It is a separate compliance mechanism built around a trade-off. The taxpayer receives simplicity and a prescribed turnover-based tax mechanism but accepts restrictions such as the inability to collect GST separately and the loss of ordinary ITC benefits. Its suitability therefore depends on the business rather than on the tax rate alone. For a small, locally focused business with limited compliance capacity, the scheme may provide meaningful administrative relief. For a business with substantial input costs, registered business customers or expansion plans, its restrictions may become increasingly relevant. Ultimately, the Composition Levy raises a broader question about GST policy: how can the law simplify taxation for small businesses without limiting their ability to grow? The future effectiveness of the Composition Scheme will depend upon maintaining that balance between simplicity, revenue protection, compliance and commercial flexibility. References 1. Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, Section 10 – Composition Levy. 2. Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, Rules 3–7 relating to Composition Levy. 3. Finance (No. 2) Act, 2024, Section 115 – Amendment of Section 10 of the CGST Act. 4. GST Council, Composition Levy Scheme under GST Law. 5. GST Council, Frequently Asked Questions on Composition Levy. 6. CBIC, Composition Rules, Government of India. 7. Skp Pharmachem v. Union of India, Gujarat High Court, 7 January 2023. 8. Ezzy Electricals v. State of Gujarat, Gujarat High Court, 16 February 2022. 9. Press Information Bureau, Ministry of Finance, Recommendations of the 56th Meeting of the GST Council, 3 September 2025. Notes: 1 Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, 2 Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, 10; Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, r. 7. 3 Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, r. 7. 4 Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, 10(4). 5 Skp Pharmachem v. Union of India, Special Civil Application No. 13744 of 2022, Gujarat High Court, order dated 7 January 2023. 6 Ezzy Electricals v. State of Gujarat, Special Civil Application No. 13091 of 2020, Gujarat High Court, order dated 16 February 2022. 7 Finance (No. 2) Act, 2024, 115, amending 10(5) of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. 8 Press Information Bureau, Ministry of Finance, Government of India, Recommendations of the 56th Meeting of the GST Council, 3 September 2025. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Composition Scheme Author Info Name: Usheeka gulati Qualification: Student - Others Location: Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Usheeka gulati Taxable Event under GST: The Shift from Manufacture to Supply February 19, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Merger-Related ITC Dispute Requires Division Bench Hearing: GSTAT Chennai September 22, 2026 Uttarakhand HC Quashes GST Cancellation Based on Vague Fraud Charge September 22, 2026 Madras High Court Allows SEZ Refund of ISD-Distributed IGST Credit September 22, 2026 Delhi HC Declines Interference in GST Audit File Transfer to Anti-Evasion Wing September 22, 2026 Same GST Officer Cannot Audit and Adjudicate: Karnataka HC September 22, 2026 Bombay HC Orders Release of Goods After GST Prohibition Period Ends September 22, 2026