Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: SEBI has extended the Samuhik Prativedan Manch, a technology-based common reporting mechanism, to members of Clearing Corporations who are also stock brokers. The platform was introduced in July 2025 for stock brokers registered with multiple Stock Exchanges to enable them to submit common compliance reports through a single reporting mechanism instead of separately submitting the same reports to multiple Exchanges. The latest extension, undertaken by SEBI in consultation with Clearing Corporations, covers Clearing Members registered with multiple Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations who currently face duplicate and multiple reporting requirements. Under the extended mechanism, compliance reports submitted by such Clearing Members on the Samuhik Prativedan Manch will be consumed by all relevant Clearing Corporations, thereby eliminating multiple reporting to each Clearing Corporation separately. The first phase is proposed to commence from September 30, 2026 and will cover Clearing Members who are also stock brokers, with 14 compliance reports, representing approximately 60% of their reporting requirements, proposed to be operationalised through the platform. The second phase, proposed from December 31, 2026, will explore submission of the remaining Clearing Member reports through the common reporting platform and assess the feasibility of extending the mechanism to Professional Clearing Members holding memberships with multiple Clearing Corporations. Approximately 1,066 Clearing Members who are also stock brokers and have multiple memberships with Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations are expected to benefit from the initiative through reduced compliance costs and simplified reporting requirements. Securities and Exchange Board of India PR No.58/2026 Samuhik Prativedan Manch- A Technology based common reporting mechanism extended to Members of Clearing Corporations SEBI continues to advance the ease of doing business for market intermediaries by rationalising compliance frameworks and eliminating redundant reporting requirements. This optimization drives operational efficiency across the market, ultimately delivering a more transparent, secure, and cost-effective investment environment for individual investors. SEBI and Stock Exchanges on July 18, 2025 introduced the Samuhik Prativedan Manch, a technology based common reporting platform for stock brokers. With the introduction of common reporting mechanism, stock brokers who are registered with multiple Stock Exchanges could submit compliance reports to the Samuhik Prativedan Manch instead of multiple Exchanges/ places. SEBI, in consultation with Clearing Corporations is now extending the Samuhik Prativedan Manch to members of the Clearing Corporations (CCs), who are also stock brokers to submit their compliance reports. Such Clearing Members (CMs) are registered with multiple Stock Exchanges/ Clearing Corporations and are required to submit the same compliance reports at all the Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations separately resulting into redundancy and multiplicity in reporting requirements. With the extension of Samuhik Prativedan Manch to such CMs, their compliance reports submitted to the platform will be consumed by all CCs. Hence, it will do away multiple reporting to CCs where they are registered. This is expected to substantially reduce compliance costs of CMs. The common reporting platform mechanism would be implemented in a phased manner. The first phase would be for CMs who are also stock brokers and is proposed to be implemented with effect from September 30, 2026 wherein submission of 14 compliance reports (approximately 60% of their reporting requirements) would be operationalised. In the second phase, submission of the remaining reports of CMs to the common reporting platform would be explored. Additionally, the feasibility of extending the common reporting platform to Professional Clearing Members (PCMs) holding multiple Clearing Corporation’s memberships will be evaluated. The second phase is proposed to be implemented from December 31, 2026. Around 1066 CMs who are also stock brokers, who have multiple membership with Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations would benefit from this initiative by way of reduced compliance cost and ease of doing business with respect to approximately 60% of their reporting requirements. Mumbai September 17, 2026 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under SEBISEBI notifications Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in SEBI Company Secretary’s Role in DPDP Compliance and Cybersecurity Governance September 17, 2026 Draft Red Herring Prospectus: Understanding Its IPO Disclosure & Auditor Role September 17, 2026 SEBI Renews Recognition of NSE Clearing Limited for Three Years from 3 October 2026 September 17, 2026 SEBI Renews Recognition of Metropolitan Stock Exchange for One Year from 16 September 2026 September 17, 2026 Measures to Strengthen BCP and DR of Market Infrastructure Institutions – SEBI Consultation Paper September 16, 2026 Board Appointment Rights & Corporate Control: A Purposive Interpretation in InvIT Framework September 12, 2026