Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13690 Case Name O.P. Mehta Vs Mohinder Kalta & Ors. (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); O.P. Mehta Vs Mohinder Kalta & Ors. (Supreme Court of India) Tender Dispute Cannot Be Camouflaged as PIL: Supreme Court Restores Road Contract Subject to Three-Month Completion Deadline Supreme Court Questions Use of PIL to Challenge Award of Government Tender The Supreme Court, in O.P. Mehta v. Mohinder Kalta & Ors., 2026 INSC 1037, expressed serious reservations about entertaining a Public Interest Litigation where the controversy essentially concerned the comparative eligibility of competing tenderers. The Court observed that disputes relating to the technical qualifications, experience and eligibility of bidders ordinarily involve their individual commercial interests. Such disputes cannot acquire the character of public interest merely because the contract has been awarded by a government authority. The Bench comprising Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Sheel Nagu accordingly interfered with the Himachal Pradesh High Court’s decision quashing the road-work contract awarded to the appellant. However, instead of finally disposing of the proceedings, the Supreme Court granted the contractor three months to complete the work and directed the matter to be listed again for submission of a compliance report. High Court Had Quashed the Road-Work Contract The dispute concerned the upgradation of the Matiana-Mahori-Chhaila road under a Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana package. The value of the work was approximately Rs.23 crore. The contract was awarded to the appellant on March 15, 2024. A PIL was subsequently filed before the Himachal Pradesh High Court questioning the tender process and the appellant’s eligibility. By its judgment dated December 24, 2024, the High Court allowed the PIL, quashed the award of work and directed the authorities to re-tender the remaining work within one month. The High Court’s decision was influenced by several perceived irregularities. These included contradictory stands regarding the receipt and withdrawal of a complaint made by another bidder, doubts over whether the appellant’s experience was obtained as a prime contractor or a subcontractor, his alleged operation under two different names and the nature of the experience reflected in the certificate relied upon by him. The High Court also examined whether the conditions permitting subcontracting under the tender documents had been complied with. Dispute Was Essentially Between Competing Tenderers The Supreme Court identified the central issue as whether the validity of a tender could be challenged through a PIL when its adjudication required a comparative examination of the claims of competing bidders. The Court noted that the grounds raised before the High Court predominantly related to an inter se comparison between the two bidders whose bids had been received. Significantly, the Supreme Court recorded that the PIL petitioner appeared to be the alter ego of the unsuccessful bidder. That unsuccessful bidder had earlier complained against the successful bidder but subsequently withdrew the complaint. This circumstance cast serious doubt upon the bona fides and public character of the proceedings. In substance, the PIL appeared to be an indirect attempt to pursue the commercial grievance of a bidder who had failed to secure the contract. The Court was therefore not persuaded that the proceedings represented genuine public interest. Contract Value Did Not Establish Wastage of Public Resources The Supreme Court further observed that even the value of the work, approximately Rs.23 crore, was not of such magnitude that the PIL petitioner could legitimately invoke the broader ground of wastage of public resources. This observation does not mean that contracts below a particular monetary threshold are immune from judicial review. Rather, the Court was examining whether the facts disclosed a genuine issue of public injury or merely a disguised dispute between private commercial parties. The decision reinforces that the public-law character of a government tender does not automatically convert every disagreement between bidders into a matter suitable for PIL jurisdiction. Contractor Given Three Months to Complete the Work During the hearing, the appellant placed an affidavit dated September 3, 2026 before the Supreme Court. It stated that three kilometres of road construction had already been completed along with the retaining and breast walls. The appellant also expressed willingness to complete the remaining work at the rates applicable when the contract was awarded on March 15, 2024. He assured the Court that the quality of the work would not be compromised. Taking this assurance into account, the Supreme Court granted the appellant three months to complete the entire allotted work at the original contractual rates. The continuation of the contract was, however, made conditional. The concerned authorities were directed to verify the quality of the work. If the appellant failed to complete it within the stipulated three months, the authorities would be required to re-tender the remaining work at the prevailing market rate. The interim order restraining the creation of third-party rights was correspondingly modified. The case was directed to be listed in the first week of December 2026 for the appellant to file a compliance report. Supreme Court’s Order Is Conditional and Proceedings Remain Pending Although the Supreme Court intervened against the consequences of the High Court’s judgment, the order is not a final unconditional approval of the tender process. The Court has adopted a practical and supervisory approach. It has protected the existing contract from immediate cancellation while placing the successful contractor under a strict deadline and quality-control requirement. The final outcome will depend upon whether the contractor completes the work within three months and whether the authorities find the quality satisfactory. Author’s Comments The ruling sends an important message against the misuse of PIL jurisdiction in contractual matters. An unsuccessful bidder cannot ordinarily avoid the restrictions applicable to tender litigation by setting up another person to institute a PIL. Courts may examine government contracts where there is demonstrable arbitrariness, corruption, mala fides or substantial public injury. However, questions concerning the relative experience, eligibility or technical qualifications of two bidders are primarily commercial disputes and should not ordinarily be adjudicated through a PIL. At the same time, the Supreme Court did not overlook public interest in completion of the road. Cancelling the contract and commencing a fresh tender could have increased the cost and delayed the project. By directing completion at the original rates within three months, subject to quality verification, the Court balanced contractual fairness with the need to protect public resources. The order is therefore significant for two reasons: it discourages proxy litigation by unsuccessful tenderers and demonstrates that judicial relief in public contracts may be structured to secure timely completion of public infrastructure rather than mechanically restarting the tender process. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF SUPREME COURT 1. These appeals assail the Division Bench decision of the High Court of Himachal Pradesh, Shimla, rendered in a PIL bearing CWPIL No.30 of 2024 on 24.12.2024, whereby the PIL was allowed by quashing the award of work in favour of respondent No.5 therein (appellant herein) and directing the official respondents to re-tender the remaining work of upgradation of Matiana, Mahori to Chhaila road, Km. 0/00 to 25/650 under PMGSY package No. HP-09-694 within one month from the date of the judgment. 2. The aspect which glares in the face in present case is as to whether the issue of validity of a tender, where comparative claims of competing tenderers are to be adjudged, can be raised as subject matter of challenge in a PIL? 2.1. We have our reservations since the grounds raised in the PIL before the High Court of Himachal Pradesh, Shimla pre-dominantly dealt with, inter-se comparative assessment between the two bidders whose bids had been received including respondent No.5 therein (appellant herein). 2.2. Moreso even the cost of work (Rs. 23 crores) was not of such magnitude, which may allow the petitioner in PIL to raise the plea of wastage of public resources. 3. Certain factors which weighed in the mind of the High Court, for rendering the impugned judgment, were as follows: i. The contradictory stand taken by the official respondents as to whether the complaint made by M/s PK Construction Pvt. Ltd. (the other bidder) was actually received by the official respondents or not and if received then whether it was withdrawn or not. ii. Whether the experience gained by the appellant was as a sub-contractor or as a prime contractor. iii. Whether the appellant could have been allowed to operate under two different names in violation of certain clauses of the tender documents. iv. Though it was admitted in the impugned order that sub-contracts were allowed under the terms and conditions of the tender document but subject to fulfilment of certain conditions which were found missing in the instant case. v. The nature of work experience gained by appellant, as reflected from his work experience certificate was at variance to the nature of work actually executed in the past. 4. It cannot be overlooked that the petitioner before the High Court, as the alter ego of the unsuccessful bidder, filed the PIL questioning the tender process. The said unsuccessful bidder had complained against the successful bidder and has since withdrawn the complaint. 5. During the course of argument, we were informed vide affidavit of appellant dated 03.09.2026 that three (03) Kms. of road construction is complete along with retaining and breast walls of Matiana to Mohri Road in Distt-Shimla (H.P.) and that appellant is ready and willing to complete the work at the same rates on which the work was awarded to appellant on 15.03.2024. Appellant has assured that quality of work shall not be compromised. 5.1 In view of the aforesaid assurance made by the appellant, we extend a period of three months for the appellant to complete the entire work allotted to him on 15.03.2024 at the rates prevailing as on 15.03.2024. If the work so assigned to the appellant is not completed within the given time of three months subject to the official respondents verifying the quality of the work executed, the official respondents are directed to re-tender the same work at the prevailing market rate. 6. The instant case stands deferred to be listed in the first week of December, for the appellant to submit compliance report of this order. 7. This order shall also govern Civil Appeal No.12969 of 2026 preferred by the State of Himachal Pradesh. 8. That by order dated 07.03.2025, this Court had till the pendency of this appeal restrained the official respondents from creating third party rights, which interim order continues to subsist till date. Therefore, to the extent indicated above in this order, the said interim order dated 07.03.2025 stands modified. 9. List in the 1st week of December, 2026, for appellant to file compliance report. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,612 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty Section 68 Additions Raise No Substantial Question of Law: Calcutta HC September 23, 2026 AO Cannot Demand Negative Proof for Section 270AA Immunity: Delhi HC September 23, 2026 Advocate Gets 15-Day Jail for Baseless “Match-Fixing” Allegation: Karnataka HC September 23, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Advocate Gets 15-Day Jail for Baseless “Match-Fixing” Allegation: Karnataka HC September 23, 2026 Cross-FIR Not Automatic Merely Because Complaint Is Counter-Version: Delhi HC September 23, 2026 Expired Railway Way Leave Cannot Be Revived Through Resolution Plan: Calcutta HC September 23, 2026 Supreme Court Upholds Service Tax Exemption for IIT Patna and NIT Rourkela September 23, 2026 Labour Codes for Banks: RBI Compliance, Governance and Audit Implications September 23, 2026 Deleted Chats, Lost Evidence? Indian Law on Preserving Electronic Records Before Litigation September 23, 2026