Summary: Bank of India Flexi Cap Fund is an open-ended equity scheme investing across large-cap, mid-cap and small-cap companies. Its Scheme Information Document dated 28 November 2025 identifies the BSE 500 Total Return Index as the benchmark and describes an equity allocation range of 65% to 100% under normal market conditions. The AMC lists an allotment date of 29 June 2020 and an exit-load structure that allows 10% of investments to be redeemed within three months without load, while the balance redeemed in that period generally attracts 1%. The scheme is exposed to equity-market volatility and carries a very-high-risk classification in the official disclosures reviewed. This article examines the scheme’s legal structure, asset allocation, portfolio concentration, costs, investment processes and Indian tax treatment. Figures from portfolio snapshots are historical and must not be mistaken for live positions. Investors should consult the latest SID addenda, factsheet and transaction disclosures before relying on any term. Table of Contents▸ Scheme Identity and Official Documents Investment Objective and Allocation Rules Benchmark, Portfolio and Concentration Riskometer and What It Does Not Show Expenses, Direct and Regular Plans, and Exit Load Purchases, SIPs, NAV and Documentation Income-Tax Treatment of Equity-Oriented Mutual Fund Units Financial Reporting and Review Controls Frequently Asked Questions Is Bank of India Flexi Cap Fund a fixed-return product? What does flexi-cap mean in this scheme? What is the benchmark? What is the exit load within three months? Does the riskometer guarantee the maximum loss? Are SIP instalments treated as one purchase for tax? Are gains always taxed at 12.5%? Where can current TER and holdings be checked? Key Takeaways Show all 18 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Scheme Identity and Official Documents The precise name is Bank of India Flexi Cap Fund, not a generic “Bank of India Mutual Fund Scheme”. It is managed by Bank of India Investment Managers Private Limited, with Bank of India Trustee Services Private Limited acting as trustee. The fund’s open-ended structure permits purchases and redemptions subject to applicable business days, cut-off timings, liquidity conditions and the operative scheme documents. Units are not bank deposits, and neither the fund name nor its association with a bank implies capital protection. The Scheme Information Document (SID), dated 28 November 2025, is the governing scheme-specific disclosure reviewed for this article. The Statement of Additional Information supplies mutual-fund-wide legal and operational disclosures, while the Key Information Memorandum (KIM), addenda and monthly factsheets provide condensed and more frequently updated details. When documents conflict, the effective date and subsequent addenda matter. A portfolio snapshot cannot be used to establish today’s exact holdings or expense ratio. Item Officially disclosed position Scheme Bank of India Flexi Cap Fund Category Open-ended dynamic equity scheme across market capitalisations Allotment date 29 June 2020 Benchmark BSE 500 Total Return Index (TRI) Normal equity allocation 65%–100% of scheme assets Entry load Nil Risk classification Very High in reviewed disclosures; check latest monthly update SID reviewed 28 November 2025 Investment Objective and Allocation Rules The stated objective is long-term capital appreciation through investment predominantly in equity and equity-related securities across market capitalisations. The wording is an objective rather than a contractual promise. Flexi-cap classification permits the portfolio manager to vary the balance between large, mid and small companies within the applicable regulatory framework. It does not mean that the manager must maintain a fixed proportion in each market-cap segment. Under normal conditions, the AMC describes an equity and equity-related allocation of 65% to 100%. Cash equivalents, money-market exposures and other permissible instruments may form part of the remainder, subject to the operative SID. Equity derivatives, where permitted, may be used in accordance with stated strategy and risk controls. The distinction between cash equity, hedged positions and other instruments matters when reading gross exposure and assessing volatility. A flexi-cap fund can change its portfolio more substantially than a category with fixed market-cap minima. Such flexibility introduces manager-discretion risk as well as potential changes in sector concentration, liquidity and valuation sensitivity. The correct comparison is therefore against the fund’s disclosed benchmark and comparable measurement periods, not against an unrelated index or a single stock. Benchmark, Portfolio and Concentration The benchmark disclosed by the AMC is the BSE 500 TRI. A total-return index incorporates dividends on the index methodology, making it more suitable than a price-only index for comparison with reinvested fund returns. Comparisons must identify the direct or regular plan, growth or IDCW option, return measurement date and whether the returns are point-to-point or annualised. Since-inception figures may be distorted by differences in launch dates across competing schemes. The AMC’s product-page portfolio snapshot lists TREPS/reverse-repo investments and holdings such as State Bank of India, ICICI Bank, Hindustan Aeronautics and Mankind Pharma among prominent positions. These are a dated disclosure, not evidence of current holdings on 8 October 2026. The snapshot also illustrates that cash-equivalent positions may coexist with equities. A reviewer should examine the latest monthly statement for top-ten concentration, industry weights, mid- and small-cap exposure, turnover and exposure to related issuers. Sector allocation matters because apparently diversified portfolios can still be sensitive to the same economic drivers, such as interest rates, consumer demand or government capital expenditure. Security weights should be assessed together with market capitalisation, trading liquidity and valuation. A top-ten list alone does not show the complete risk profile. The official monthly portfolio disclosure, rather than a promotional summary, is the appropriate source for a reproducible concentration analysis. Riskometer and What It Does Not Show The reviewed AMC disclosures classify the scheme in the Very High risk category. The riskometer is a standardised indicator, not a prediction of future losses or a maximum drawdown. The scheme may suffer significant NAV declines during broad market corrections or sharp moves in individual holdings. Small- and mid-cap securities can be less liquid and more volatile than large-cap stocks, especially in stressed markets. The riskometer can change as the portfolio changes. The benchmark also has a separately disclosed riskometer; investors should not confuse the two. The correct date of each classification should accompany any publication of the indicator. An investor’s own ability to bear losses, time horizon and concentration across other investments are not measured by the fund riskometer. Expenses, Direct and Regular Plans, and Exit Load The total expense ratio (TER) is reflected in the scheme NAV rather than billed as a separate recurring invoice to the unitholder. Direct and regular plans can have different expense ratios because their distribution arrangements differ. TER may change within applicable regulatory limits; the current figure must be taken from the AMC’s dated TER disclosure. A historical factsheet figure must not be presented as the rate applicable on the publication date without reconfirmation. The AMC describes nil entry load. For redemption or switch-out within three months from allotment, 10% of investments can be redeemed without exit load; the remaining investments redeemed within that period generally attract 1%. After three months, the published exit load is nil. For SIP purchases, each instalment creates a separate allotment and its own holding period. The operative exit-load schedule, any subsequent addendum and the treatment of special transactions should be checked at redemption. Exit load and income tax are distinct. Exit load affects net redemption proceeds, whereas tax depends on gains, acquisition cost, holding period and investor circumstances. A fund’s NAV movement does not by itself establish the realised taxable gain on a partial redemption, because units may have different purchase dates and costs. Purchases, SIPs, NAV and Documentation Investments may be made through a lump sum, systematic investment plan (SIP), systematic transfer plan (STP) or other facilities described by the AMC. SIPs spread the timing of purchases but do not eliminate market risk or guarantee positive returns. Each contribution is an independent acquisition for holding-period and tax purposes. Investors should preserve allotment statements and consolidated account statements with transaction-level information. The applicable NAV depends on cut-off times, receipt and availability of funds, transaction type and applicable SEBI rules. Submitting an order before a cut-off is not necessarily sufficient if the payment reaches the scheme later. KYC, PAN, bank verification, nomination or opt-out and applicable beneficial-ownership requirements should be completed using the AMC or registrar’s official channels. Minimum investment amounts and platform-specific facilities should be verified from the latest KIM rather than older brochures. Income-Tax Treatment of Equity-Oriented Mutual Fund Units Where the scheme satisfies the statutory conditions for an equity-oriented fund and the applicable transaction requirements are met, units held for not more than 12 months are generally short-term capital assets, while longer holdings may qualify for long-term treatment. For qualifying transfers on or after 23 July 2024, section 111A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 generally prescribes a 20% short-term capital-gains rate, and section 112A generally prescribes 12.5% on aggregate eligible long-term gains exceeding ₹1,25,000 in a financial year. Applicable surcharge and cess, resident-individual basic-exemption adjustments, and statutory conditions require separate examination. These are capital-gains provisions relevant to the stated transaction period and should not be mechanically applied to every investor or future tax year. In particular, changes associated with the Income-tax Act, 2025 and its commencement framework require checking the governing law for the actual year of transfer. The fund category is not a substitute for verifying the equity-oriented fund definition and securities transaction tax conditions. Tax reporting should use the taxpayer’s actual redemption records, not a fund-level return chart. Issue General treatment Check before filing Holding up to 12 months Potential STCG; section 111A where conditions met Acquisition/redemption dates, STT and status Holding over 12 months Potential LTCG; section 112A where conditions met Aggregate annual eligible gains and threshold IDCW distribution Generally taxable to recipient under applicable rules TDS, residential status and statements Capital losses Set-off/carry-forward subject to statute Return filing deadline and loss classification NRI investors Withholding and treaty considerations may apply Residency, DTAA, forms and remittance IDCW distributions are not the same as capital appreciation and can have separate income-tax and withholding consequences. A resident investor’s capital losses may be set off or carried forward only under applicable conditions, including timely filing requirements. For non-residents, withholding obligations, treaty relief and documentation can materially change the net proceeds. Tax computation must also account for the transaction-level treatment of costs and any relevant grandfathering rules. Financial Reporting and Review Controls Businesses and other entities holding fund units should reconcile purchases, redemptions, distributions, closing units and year-end NAV against the ledger and depository or registrar statements. Accounting treatment depends on the applicable reporting framework, business purpose and classification. The fact that an investment is held in an equity mutual fund does not automatically make all income business income for tax purposes. Conversely, accounting fair-value movements and taxable realised gains may arise in different periods. For an editorial or compliance review, maintain an evidence file consisting of the dated SID, subsequent addenda, latest factsheet, latest TER and load disclosures, monthly portfolio statement and applicable statutory provisions. Record the as-of date for every numerical figure. Where the AMC website shows older performance data or a partially populated table, omission is preferable to presenting an undated number as current. Frequently Asked Questions Is Bank of India Flexi Cap Fund a fixed-return product? No. It is an open-ended equity mutual fund, and neither returns nor principal are guaranteed. What does flexi-cap mean in this scheme? The manager can invest across large-, mid- and small-cap stocks within the scheme’s regulatory and SID constraints; the mix need not remain fixed. What is the benchmark? The AMC identifies BSE 500 TRI. Compare returns over matching periods and identify the correct plan and option. What is the exit load within three months? The published schedule permits 10% of investments without exit load; the balance redeemed within three months generally attracts 1%, subject to operative terms. Does the riskometer guarantee the maximum loss? No. Very High is a standardised risk classification, not a loss cap or prediction. Are SIP instalments treated as one purchase for tax? No. Each SIP allotment has its own acquisition date and cost, which can affect the holding period and taxable gain. Taxation of Mutual Fund SIP Are gains always taxed at 12.5%? No. Rate and classification depend on holding period, statutory conditions, transaction date, aggregate gains and taxpayer status. Where can current TER and holdings be checked? Use the AMC’s latest dated TER disclosures, monthly portfolio and factsheet, together with SID addenda. Key Takeaways The exact product is Bank of India Flexi Cap Fund, with a 28 November 2025 SID reviewed for this article. The fund targets long-term capital appreciation across market capitalisations; returns are not assured. BSE 500 TRI is the benchmark; the reviewed scheme risk classification is Very High. The published exit-load structure differentiates the first three months and permits a 10% no-load portion. Current TER, NAV, holdings and riskometer must be taken from dated AMC disclosures. Tax outcomes depend on each unit’s acquisition date, redemption date, statutory fund classification and investor status. ***** Disclaimer: This article is for general information and education as of 8 October 2026 and is not investment, legal, tax or financial advice. It relies on identified official scheme disclosures, some of which have earlier effective dates, and does not claim that historical portfolio figures, riskometer positions, expenses, NAVs or performance numbers remain current. Scheme documents, addenda, SEBI rules and Indian tax laws can change, and individual facts can produce different outcomes. Readers should consult the latest official SID, KIM, factsheet, AMC notices, statutory provisions and qualified advisers before making any decision. No return, safety of capital or tax outcome is promised. TaxGuru assumes no responsibility or liability for errors, omissions, reliance, financial losses or decisions taken on the basis of this article. TaxGuru: mutual fund taxation and statutory changes: https://taxguru.in/income-tax/intricacies-taxation-income-mutual-funds.html TaxGuru: short- and long-term capital-gains treatment: https://taxguru.in/income-tax/stcg-vs-ltcg-tax-rates-treatment-new-regime-fy-2024-25.html Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Mutual Fund Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,368 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi SBI Amrit Vrishti FD: 444-Day Tenure, Interest Rates, TDS and Withdrawal Rules October 8, 2026 USD–INR Currency Derivatives in India: RBI Rules, FEMA, Tax and Accounting October 8, 2026 Bank Lien Notice Quantifies Tax Dues for SVLDRS: Bombay HC October 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Mutual Funds Parag Parikh Flexi Cap Fund: Portfolio, Returns, Risk, Exit Load and Tax Guide October 7, 2026 SBI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund: Strategy, Tracking Risk, Costs and Taxation October 7, 2026 ICICI Prudential Nifty 50 Index Fund: Portfolio, Tracking, Costs, Risk and Tax Guide October 5, 2026 UTI Nifty 50 Index Fund: Features, Portfolio, TER, Taxation & Investor Risks October 5, 2026 UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund: Features, TER, Taxation & Investor Risks October 3, 2026