Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13237 Case Name Aditya Medical Systems Vs Appellate Joint Commissioner of State Tax (Telangana High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Telangana High Court Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Aditya Medical Systems Vs Appellate Joint Commissioner of State Tax (Telangana High Court) Summary: The Telangana High Court set aside an order rejecting a GST appeal on the ground of delay after finding that the appellate authority had not dealt with the petitioner’s plea based on liberty granted in an earlier writ petition. The matter was remanded for a fresh order in accordance with law. Introduction The Telangana High Court in M/s. Aditya Medical Systems vs Appellate Joint Commissioner of State Tax & Others considered a challenge to an appellate order dated 16.02.2026, by which the petitioner’s appeal had been rejected on the ground of delay. The petitioner contended that the appellate authority had failed to consider the liberty granted by the High Court in an earlier writ petition, W.P. No. 33216 of 2025, even though that plea had been raised in the memo of appeal. Case Background The petitioner had earlier approached the High Court in W.P. No. 33216 of 2025. That writ petition was disposed of on 03.11.2025, and the petitioner stated that the appeal was filed on 19.11.2025. The appellate authority subsequently rejected the appeal as time-barred through an order dated 16.02.2026. The petitioner challenged that rejection, asserting that the appellate authority had not considered the earlier order and the timeline for filing the appeal pursuant to the liberty granted therein. Petitioner’s Contentions The petitioner submitted that: The earlier writ petition was disposed of on 03.11.2025. The appeal was filed on 19.11.2025, as stated by the petitioner. The memo of appeal specifically raised the plea based on the liberty granted in the earlier writ petition. The appellate authority had not considered that plea while rejecting the appeal as delayed. The impugned order therefore suffered from non-application of mind. Respondent’s Stand The State Tax Department submitted that the appeal appeared not to have been filed within the two-week period. However, the respondent’s counsel was unable to dispute that the appellate order did not refer to the liberty granted in the earlier writ petition, despite the petitioner having raised that plea in the memo of appeal. Court’s Observations The High Court noted that the appellate order did not refer to the petitioner’s plea that the appeal had been filed within the period stipulated pursuant to the earlier writ order. The Court considered this omission significant. Since the appellate authority had rejected the appeal without dealing with the plea based on the earlier order, the High Court held that the matter required reconsideration. The Court expressly clarified that it was not examining the merits of the challenge. It set aside the impugned appellate order and remanded the matter to the appellate authority for a fresh order in accordance with law, uninfluenced by the High Court’s observations. Final Judgment The Telangana High Court: 1. Set aside the appellate order dated 16.02.2026 rejecting the appeal on the ground of delay. 2. Remanded the matter to the appellate authority for fresh consideration. 3. Directed the appellate authority to pass a fresh order in accordance with law, uninfluenced by the Court’s observations. 4. Disposed of the writ petition without an order as to costs. Author’s Analysis 1. Relevant Pleas Must Be Considered The order underscores that an appellate authority must address a material plea raised by the taxpayer, particularly one founded on a prior court order granting liberty to pursue an appeal. Here, the High Court intervened because the rejection order did not deal with that plea. 2. Non-Application of Mind in Delay Rejection The petitioner’s appeal had been rejected as delayed. However, the appellate order did not discuss the petitioner’s contention regarding the earlier writ order and the filing timeline. The High Court found that this omission required the authority to reconsider the matter. The Court did not, however, hold that the appeal was necessarily filed within time. 3. Remand Rather Than a Decision on Limitation The High Court did not decide the limitation question or determine the merits of the underlying GST appeal. It set aside the rejection order and left the matter for fresh consideration by the appellate authority in accordance with law. Conclusion In M/s. Aditya Medical Systems vs Appellate Joint Commissioner of State Tax & Others, W.P. No. 27937 of 2026, the Telangana High Court set aside the rejection of a GST appeal where the appellate authority had not considered the petitioner’s plea based on liberty granted in an earlier writ petition. The matter was remanded for a fresh order in accordance with law. The High Court did not decide whether the appeal was within time or determine the merits of the GST dispute. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF TELANGANA HIGH COURT 2. The appeal of the petitioner has been rejected on the ground of delay vide impugned order dated 16.02.2026 without referring to the liberty granted by this Court in W.P. No.33216 of 2025 filed by the petitioner, though such plea was taken in the memo of appeal. Therefore, the petitioner has approached this Court. 3. A perusal of the order in appeal does not show any reference to filing of the appeal within the period stipulated i.e., two weeks, pursuant to the liberty granted by this Court in WP No.33216 of 2025. 4. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that WP No.33216 of 2025 was disposed of on 03.11.2025 and the appeal was filed on 19.11.2025. However, there is no consideration on this aspect by the appellate authority. Therefore, the impugned order suffers from non-application of mind. 5. Learned counsel for the respondents submits that it appears that the appeal has not been filed within the period of two weeks. But, he is not in a position to dispute that the order in appeal does not make any mention of the liberty granted by this Court though such plea was taken by the petitioner in the memo of appeal. 6. Having considered the aforesaid limited facts and circumstances, without going into the merits of the challenge, since it appears that the order in appeal has been passed without even dealing with the plea of the petitioner based upon the liberty granted by this Court in WP No.33216 of 2025, we are of the view that the matter requires reconsideration. Accordingly, the impugned order is set aside and the matter is remanded to the appellate authority to pass fresh order in accordance with law, uninfluenced by any of the observations made by this Court. The instant Writ Petition is disposed of. No costs. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgments Author Info Name: ADV AKRUTI GOYAL (CA) Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: ADV AKRUTI GOYAL, ADVOCATE AND LEGAL CONSULTANT Location: Hyderabad, Telangana Articles Published: 233 View full profile → More from ADV AKRUTI GOYAL (CA) GST Revocation: Telangana HC Permits Physical Filing After Portal Time Limit Expiry September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Permits Physical GST Revocation Application After Portal Deadline September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Grants Two Weeks’ Protection from GST Recovery to Enable Statutory Appeal September 17, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Revocation: Telangana HC Permits Physical Filing After Portal Time Limit Expiry September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Permits Physical GST Revocation Application After Portal Deadline September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Grants Two Weeks’ Protection from GST Recovery to Enable Statutory Appeal September 17, 2026 GST Portal Technical Issue: Telangana HC Permits Physical Filing of GST Revocation Application September 17, 2026 CGST Delhi South Arrests Partner for Fraudulent ITC Availment of Over Rs. 15.78 Crore September 17, 2026 Delhi HC on Proper Officer for Section 122 Penalties & Pre-Deposit for Pre-Oct 1, 2025 SCNs September 16, 2026