Updated: 28 September 2026, approximately 3:45 p.m. IST. The tax audit report deadline for financial year 2025-26 (assessment year 2026-27) remains 30 September 2026 for ordinary audited cases. The corresponding income-tax return is due on 31 October 2026. Professional representations, social-media campaigns and writ petitions seek more time, but none changes a due date by itself. As at this update, an official CBDT extension order for this assessment year could not be verified. The Income Tax Department’s published guidance continues to state 30 September for the tax audit report in Forms 3CA/3CB and 3CD. Also Read: Tax Audit Due Date Extension to 31 October 2026 Demanded by Organisations Across India This is a follow-up to TaxGuru’s analysis of recurring Section 44AB compliance pressure. The immediate question here is whether the current litigation and representations are likely to produce relief before the existing deadline. Table of Contents▸ Where do the High Court cases stand? Does last year's extension make one certain this year? Will the due date be extended? What should taxpayers and auditors do now? Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Where do the High Court cases stand? Proceeding Relief reported to be sought Position verified by this update Rajasthan Tax Consultants Association, Rajasthan High Court, Jaipur Bench; reported case reference CW/54522/2026 Tax audit report deadline of 31 October 2026, with consequential relief for audited returns. Reports say the matter was taken up on 28 September and that the Court sought CBDT’s position, with a further hearing indicated for 29 September. No extension was granted in the reported hearing. The detailed order and the next listing could not be independently verified from the Court’s public record by this update; reported oral observations must not be treated as a written direction. Sarthak Choudhary v. Union of India, Madhya Pradesh High Court; reported W.P. 40525/2026 Extension of the audit-report deadline, citing practical and system-related difficulties. The filing is reported by professional news coverage and in a contemporaneous social-media post. No operative interim or final order granting an extension was verified. Madhya Pradesh Tax Consultants Association, Madhya Pradesh High Court; reported W.P. 40462/2026 Audit reports by 30 November 2026 and audited returns by 31 December 2026. Professional news coverage reports the petition and its requested dates. No operative order granting that relief was verified. The Madhya Pradesh case numbers and prayers were reported by a social-media posts also identifies W.P. 40525/2026. These sources evidence the public reports and demand for relief; they are not substitutes for a court order or CBDT circular. Does last year’s extension make one certain this year? No. On 25 September 2025, CBDT extended the specified date for audit reports for AY 2025-26 from 30 September to 31 October. Its official press release cited professional representations and submissions before High Courts, while also saying the filing portal was operating smoothly. TaxGuru also reported the Rajasthan High Court’s 2025 interim order. That history shows an extension is possible even at a late stage. It creates no automatic extension for AY 2026-27, and the facts and government’s response this year must be assessed separately. Will the due date be extended? Assessment, not an announcement: A limited extension to 31 October is a credible possibility, given the approaching deadline, multiple representations, reported proceedings in two High Courts and the CBDT’s response in 2025. A longer move to 30 November for audit reports, as requested in the Madhya Pradesh association’s reported petition, has a higher threshold and should not be assumed. The cases may also end with directions to consider representations, an administrative statement, or no extension at all. There is no reliable basis to assign a percentage probability or present an expected CBDT decision as fact. Social-media calls for #ExtendTaxAuditDueDate can draw attention to professional concerns, but the decisive developments are an authenticated court order and an effective CBDT order under its statutory powers. An oral observation, cause-list entry, media report or representation does not independently revise the specified date. What should taxpayers and auditors do now? Continue to work to 30 September 2026 for ordinary AY 2026-27 tax audit reports; do not postpone filing in anticipation of relief. Complete reconciliations and review disclosures in Form 3CD before upload, retain evidence of any genuine filing difficulty, and monitor the Income Tax Department’s official channels. If CBDT announces an extension, read the exact order for the covered reports, assessment year, class of assessees, new specified date and whether the audited-return deadline is separately changed. Check the Rajasthan listing or written order after the reported 29 September hearing and any subsequent Madhya Pradesh orders before updating clients or published deadline tables. Conclusion: The extension campaign has moved beyond representations into reported litigation, making an administrative decision more plausible than it appeared earlier. Yet, as of this update, 30 September 2026 remains the operative tax audit report deadline. A follow-up should report the exact terms of any court order or CBDT circular as soon as they are available, rather than treating a requested date as an approved one. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Due DateIncome Tax ReturnIncome Tax Return Filing Due DatesITRSection 44ADTax Audit Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,507 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Invoice Brand Name Alone Cannot Defeat Excise Exemption if not Affixed on Goods: Calcutta HC September 28, 2026 Six-Monthly MVAT Payment Cannot Attract Interest When Rules Permit It: Bombay HC September 28, 2026 Pre-Production Factory Setup Services Eligible for CENVAT Credit: CESTAT Hyderabad September 28, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Section 153C Requires Year-Specific Nexus With Seized Material: ITAT Mumbai September 28, 2026 CIT(E) Must Specify Deficiencies Before Rejecting 12AB Application: ITAT Mumbai September 28, 2026 Effective Hearing Required Despite Multiple Same-Day Notices: ITAT Mumbai September 28, 2026 Section 69 Property Addition Remanded for Fresh Verification: ITAT Mumbai September 28, 2026 Mixed Charitable-Religious Objects Do Not Bar Section 12AA Registration: Madras HC September 28, 2026 Unexplained Cash Deposit Finding Alone Cannot Sustain Section 271D Penalty: ITAT Mumbai September 28, 2026