↓ Skip to Main Content Click Here For Best Books On Taxation & Law. Upto 60% Off On Select Titles. Free Shipping & Pay On Delivery! Click Here To Subscribe To Our Free Newsletter This section is now closed. Click here for new judgements (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); › › ADIT vs. E-Funds IT Solution Inc (Supreme Court) ADIT vs. E-Funds IT Solution Inc (Supreme Court) Posted on October 25, 2017 by editor COURT: Supreme Court CORAM: Rohinton Fali Nariman J., Sanjay Kishan Kaul J SECTION(S): Article 5 GENRE: International Tax CATCH WORDS: Dependent Agent Permanent Establishment, Permanent Establishment, Service PE COUNSEL: S. Ganesh DATE: October 24, 2017 (Date of pronouncement) DATE: October 25, 2017 (Date of publication) AY: - FILE: Click here to download the file in pdf format CITATION: Permanent Establishment (PE) under Article 5 of DTAA: Entire law on concept of “fixed place of business”, “service PE” and “agency PE” explained. The fact that there is close association and dependence between the US company and the Indian companies is irrelevant. The functions performed, assets used and risk assumed, is not a proper and appropriate test to determine whether there is a location PE (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); The assessing authority decided that the assessees had a permanent establishment (hereinafter referred to as PE) as they had a fixed place where they carried on their own business in Delhi, and that, consequently, Article 5 of the India U.S. Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement of 1990 (hereinafter referred to as DTAA) was attracted. Consequently, the assessees were liable to pay tax in respect of what they earned from the aforesaid fixed place PE in India. The CIT (Appeals) dismissed the appeals of the assessees holding that Article 5 was attracted, not only because there was a fixed place where the assessees carried on their business, but also because they were “service PEs” and “agency PEs” under Article 5. In an appeal to the ITAT, the ITAT held that the CIT (Appeals) was right in holding that a “fixed place PE” and “service PE” had been made out under Article 5, but said nothing about the “agency PE” as that was not argued by the Revenue before the ITAT. However, the ITAT, on a calculation formula different from that of the CIT (Appeals), arrived at a nil figure of income for all the relevant assessment years. The appeal of the assessees to the High Court proved successful and the High Court in e-Funds IT Solutions/ e-Funds Corp vs. DIT (Delhi High Court), by an elaborate judgment, set aside the findings of all the authorities referred to above, and further dismissed the cross-appeals of the Revenue. On appeal by the Revenue to the Supreme Court HELD dismissing the appeal: (i) The Income Tax Act, in particular Section 90 thereof, does not speak of the concept of a PE. This is a creation only of the DTAA. By virtue of Article 7(1) of the DTAA, the business income of companies which are incorporated in the US will be taxable only in the US, unless it is found that they were PEs in India, in which event their business income, to the extent to which it is attributable to such PEs, would be taxable in India. Article 5 of the DTAA set out hereinabove provides for three distinct types of PEs with which we are concerned in the present case: fixed place of business PE under Articles 5(1) and 5(2)(a) to 5(2)(k); service PE under Article 5(2)(l) and agency PE under Article 5(4). Specific and detailed criteria are set out in the aforesaid provisions in order to fulfill the conditions of these PEs existing in India. The burden of proving the fact that a foreign assessee has a PE in India and must, therefore, suffer tax from the business generated from such PE is initially on the Revenue. With these prefatory remarks, let us analyse whether the respondents can be brought within any of the sub-clauses of Article 5. (ii) Since the Revenue originally relied on fixed place of business PE, this will be tackled first. Under Article 5(1), a PE means a fixed place of business through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on. What is a “fixed place of business” is no longer res integra. In Formula One World Championship Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, International Taxation-3, Delhi and others, (2017) SCC Online SC 474, this Court, after setting out Article 5 of the DTAA, held as follows: “32. The principal test, in order to ascertain as to whether an establishment has a fixed place of business or not, is that such physically located premises have to be ‘at the disposal’ of the enterprise. For this purpose, it is not necessary that the premises are owned or even rented by the enterprise. It will be sufficient if the premises are put at the disposal of the enterprise. However, merely giving access to such a place to the enterprise for the purposes of the project would not suffice. The place would be treated as ‘at the disposal’ of the enterprise when the enterprise has right to use the said place and has control thereupon. xxx xxx xxx 34. According to Philip Baker, the aforesaid illustrations confirm that the fixed place of business need not be owned or leased by the foreign enterprise, provided that is at the disposal of the enterprise in the sense of having some right to use the premises for the purposes of its business and not solely for the purposes of the project undertaken on behalf of the owner of the premises. 35. Interpreting the OECD Article 5 pertaining to PE, Klaus Vogel has remarked that insofar as the term ‘business’ is concerned, it is broad, vague and of little relevance for the PE definition. According to him, the crucial element is the term ‘place’. Importance of the term ‘place’ is explained by him in the following manner: “In conjunction with the attribute ‘fixed’, the requirement of a place reflects the strong link between the land and the taxing powers of the State. This territorial link serves as the basis not only for the distributive rules which are tied to the existence of PE but also for a considerable number of other distributive rules and, above all, for the assignment of a person to either Contracting State on the basis of residence (Article 1, read in conjunction with Article 4 OECD and UN MC).” 36. We would also like to extract below the definition to the expression ‘place’ by Vogel, which is as under: “A place is a certain amount of space within the soil or on the soil. This understanding of place as a three dimensional zone rather than a single point on the earth can be derived from the French Version (‘installation fixe’) as well as the term ‘establishment’. As a rule, this zone is based on a certain area in, on, or above the surface of the earth. Rooms or technical equipment above the soil may qualify as a PE only if they are fixed on the soil. This requirement, however, stems from the term ‘fixed’ rather than the term ‘place’, given that a place (or space) does not necessarily consist of a piece of land. On the contrary, the term ‘establishment’ makes clear that it is not the soil as such which is the PE but that the PE is constituted by a tangible facility as distinct from the soil. This is particularly evident from the French version of Article 5(1) OECD MC which uses the term ‘installation’ instead of ‘place’. The term ‘place’ is used to define the term ‘establishment’. Therefore, ‘place’ includes all tangible assets used for carrying on the business, but one such tangible asset can be sufficient. The characterization of such assets under private law as real property rather than personal property (in common law countries) or immovable rather than movable property (in civil law countries) is not authoritative. It is rather the context (including, above all, the terms ‘fixed’/‘fixe’), as well as the object and purpose of Article 5 OECD and UN MC itself, in the light of which the term ‘place’ needs to be interpreted. This approach, which follows from the general rules on treaty interpretation, gives a certain leeway for including movable property in the understanding of ‘place’ and, therefore, we assume a PE once such property has been ‘fixed’ to the soil. For example, a work bench in a caravan, restaurants on permanently anchored river boats, steady oil rigs, or a transformator or generator on board a former railway wagon qualify as places (and may also be ‘fixed’). In contrast, purely intangible property cannot qualify in any case. In particular, rights such as participations in a corporation, claims, bundles of claims (like bank accounts), any other type of intangible property (patents, software, trademarks etc.) or intangible economic assets (a regular clientele or the goodwill of an enterprise) do not in themselves constitute a PE. They can only form part of PE constituted otherwise. Likewise, an internet website (being a combination of software and other electronic data) does not constitute tangible property and, therefore, does not constitute a PE. Neither does the mere incorporation of a company in a Contracting State in itself constitute a PE of the company in that State. Where a company has its seat, according to its by-laws and/or registration, in State A while the POEM is situated in State B, this company will usually be liable to tax on the basis of its worldwide income in both Contracting States under their respective domestic tax law. Under the A-B treaty, however, the company will be regarded as a resident of State B only (Article 4(3) OECD and UN MC). In the absence of both actual facilities and a dependent agent in State A, income of this company will be taxable only in State B under the 1st sentence of Article 7(1) OECD and UN MC. There is no minimum size of the piece of land. Where the qualifying business activities consist (in full or in part) of human activities by the taxpayer, his employees or representatives, the mere space needed for the physical presence of these individuals is not sufficient (if it were sufficient, Article 5(5) OECD MC and Article 5(5)(a) UN MC and the notion of agent PEs were superfluous). This can be illustrated by the example of a salesman who regularly visits a major customer to take orders, and conducts meetings in the purchasing director’s office. The OECD MC Comm. has convincingly denied the existence of a PE, based on the implicit understanding that the relevant geographical unit is not just the chair where the salesman sits, but the entire office of the customer, and the office is not at the disposal of the enterprise for which the salesman is working.” 37. Taking cue from the word ‘through’ in the Article, Vogel has also emphasised that the place of business qualifies only if the place is ‘at the disposal’ of the enterprise. According to him, the enterprise will not be able to use the place of business as an instrument for carrying on its business unless it controls the place of business to a considerable extent. He hastens to add that there are no absolute standards for the modalities and intensity of control. Rather, the standards depend on the type of business activity at issue. According to him, ‘disposal’ is the power (or a certain fraction thereof) to use the place of business directly. Some of the instances given by Vogel in this behalf, of relative standards of control, are as under: “The degree of control depends on the type of business activity that the taxpayer carries on. It is therefore not necessary that the taxpayer is able to exclude others from entering or using the POB. The painter example in the OECD MC Comm. (no. 4.5 OECD MC Comm. on Article 5) (however questionable it might be with regard to the functional integration test) suggests that the type and extent of control need not exceed the level of what is required for the specific type of activity which is determined by the concrete business. By contrast, in the case of a selfemployed engineer who had free access to his customer’s premises to perform the services required by his contract, the Canadian Federal Court of Appeal ruled that the engineer had no control because he had access only during the customer’s regular office hours and was not entitled to carry on businesses of his own on the premises. Similarly, a Special Bench of Delhi’s Income Tax Appellate Tribunal denied the existence of a PE in the case of Ericsson. The Tribunal held that it was not sufficient that Ericsson’s employees had access to the premises of Indian mobile phone providers to deliver the hardware, software and know-how required for operating a network. By contrast, in the case of a competing enterprise, the Bench did assume an Indian PE because the employees of that enterprise (unlike Ericsson’s) had exercised other businesses of their employer. The OECD view can hardly be reconciled with the two court cases. All three examples do indeed shed some light onto the method how the relative standards for the control threshold should be designed. While the OECD MC Comm. suggests that it is sufficient to require not more than the type and extent of control necessary for the specific business activity which the taxpayer wants to exercise in the source State, the Canadian and Indian decisions advocate for stricter standards for the control threshold. The OECD MC shows a paramount tendency (though no strict rule) that PEs should be treated like subsidiaries (cf. Article 24(3) OECD and UN MC), and that facilities of a subsidiary would rarely been unusable outside the office hours of one of its customers (i.e. a third person), the view of the two courts is still more convincing. Along these lines, a POB will usually exist only where the taxpayer is free to use the POB: – at any time of his own choice; – for work relating to more than one customer; and – for his internal administrative and bureaucratic work. In all, the taxpayer will usually be regarded as controlling the POB only where he can employ it at his discretion. This does not imply that the standards of the control test should not be flexible and adaptive. Generally, the less invasive the activities are, and the more they allow a parallel use of the same POB by other persons, the lower are the requirements under the control test. There are, however, a number of traditional PEs which by their nature require an exclusive use of the POB by only one taxpayer and/or his personnel. A small workshop (cf. Article 5(2)(e) OECD and UN MC) of 10 or 12 square meters can hardly be used by more than one person. The same holds true for a room where the taxpayer runs a noisy machine.” 38. OECD commentary on Model Tax Convention mentions that a general definition of the term ‘PE’ brings out its essential characteristics, i.e. a distinct “situs”, a “fixed place of business”. This definition, therefore, contains the following conditions: – the existence of a “place of business”, i.e. a facility such as premises or, in certain instances, machinery or equipment; – this place of business must be “fixed”, i.e. it must be established at a distinct place with a certain degree of permanence; – the carrying on of the business of the enterprise through this fixed place of business. This means usually that persons who, in one way or another, are dependent on the enterprise (personnel) conduct the business of the enterprise in the State in which the fixed place is situated.” (iii) Thus, it is clear that there must exist a fixed place of business in India, which is at the disposal of the US companies, through which they carry on their own business. There is, in fact, no specific finding in the assessment order or the appellate orders that applying the aforesaid tests, any fixed place of business has been put at the disposal of these companies. The assessing officer, CIT (Appeals) and the ITAT have essentially adopted a fundamentally erroneous approach in saying that they were contracting with a 100% subsidiary and were outsourcing business to such subsidiary, which resulted in the creation of a PE. The High Court has dealt with this aspect in some detail in which it held: “49. The Assessing Officer, Commissioner (Appeals) and the tribunal have primarily relied upon the close association between e-Fund India and the two assessees and applied functions performed, assets used and risk assumed, criteria to determine whether or not the assessee has fixed place of business. This is not a proper and appropriate test to determine location PE. The fixed place of business PE test is different. Therefore, the fact that e-Fund India provides various services to the assessee and was dependent for its earning upon the two assessees is not the relevant test to determine and decide location PE. The allegation that e-Fund India did not bear sufficient risk is irrelevant when deciding whether location PE exists. The fact that e-Fund India was reimbursed the cost of the call centre operations plus 16% basis or the basis of margin fixation was not known, is not relevant for determining location or fixed place PE. Similarly what were the direct or indirect costs and corporate allocations in software development centre or BPO does not help or determine location PE. Assignment or sub-contract to e-Fund India is not a factor or rule which is to be applied to determine applicability of Article 5(1). Further whether or not any provisions for intangible software was made or had been supplied free of cost is not the relevant criteria/test. e-Fund India was/is a separate entity and was/is entitled to provide services to the assessees who were/are independent separate taxpayers. Indian entity i.e. subsidiary company will not become location PE under Article 5(1) merely because there is interaction or cross transactions between the Indian subsidiary and the foreign Principal under Article 5(1). Even if the foreign entities have saved and reduced their expenditure by transferring business or back office operations to the Indian subsidiary, it would not by itself create a fixed place or location PE. The manner and mode of the payment of royalty or associated transactions is not a test which can be applied to determine, whether fixed place PE exists.” (iv) It further went on to hold that the ITAT’s finding that the assessees were a joint venture or sort of partnership with the Indian subsidiary was wholly incorrect. Also, none of these arguments have been invoked by the Revenue and such a finding would, therefore, be perverse. After citing Klaus Vogel on Double Taxation Conventions, Arvid A. Skaar in Permanent Establishment: Erosion of a Tax Treaty Principle and Bollinger vs. Commissioner, 108 S.Ct. 1173, the High Court found against the Revenue, holding that there is no fixed place PE on the facts of the present case. We agree with the findings of the High Court in this regard. (v) Reliance placed by the Revenue on the United States Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10K Report, as has been correctly pointed out by the High Court, is also misplaced. It is clear that the report speaks of the e-Funds group of companies worldwide as a whole, which is evident not only from going through the said report, but also from the consolidated financial statements appended to the report, which show the assets of the group worldwide. (vi) Also, Shri Ganesh has pointed out that the two American companies have four main business activities which are: ATM Management Services, Electronic Payment Management, Decision Support and Risk Management and Global Outsourcing and Professional Services. (vii) This report would show that no part of the main business and revenue earning activity of the two American companies is carried on through a fixed business place in India which has been put at their disposal. It is clear from the above that the Indian company only renders support services which enable the assessees in turn to render services to their clients abroad. This outsourcing of work to India would not give rise to a fixed place PE and the High Court judgment is, therefore, correct on this score. (viii) Insofar as a service PE is concerned, the requirement of Article 5(2)(l) of the DTAA is that an enterprise must furnish services “within India” through employees or other personnel. In this regard, this Court has held, in DIT v. Morgan Stanley (2007) 7 SCC 1/ 284 ITR 260, as follows: “16. Article 5(2)(l) of DTAA applies in cases where MNE furnishes services within India and those services are furnished through its employees. In the present case we are concerned with two activities, namely, stewardship activities and the work to be performed by deputationists in India as employees of MSAS. A customer like MSCo who has worldwide operations is entitled to insist on quality control and confidentiality from the service provider. For example in the case of software PE a server stores the data which may require confidentiality. A service provider may also be required to act according to the quality control specifications imposed by its customer. It may be required to maintain confidentiality. Stewardship activities involve briefing of the MSAS staff to ensure that the output meets the requirements of MSCo. These activities include monitoring of the outsourcing operations at MSAS. The object is to protect the interest of MSCo. These stewards are not involved in day-today management or in any specific services to be undertaken by MSAS. The stewardship activity is basically to protect the interest of the customer. In the present case as held hereinabove MSAS is a service PE. It is in a sense a service provider. A customer is entitled to protect its interest both in terms of confidentiality and in terms of quality control. In such a case it cannot be said that MSCo has been rendering the services to MSAS. In our view MSCo is merely protecting its own interests in the competitive world by ensuring the quality and confidentiality of MSAS services. We do not agree with the ruling of AAR that the stewardship activity would fall under Article 5(2)(l). To this extent we find merit in the civil appeal filed by the appellant (MSCo) and accordingly its appeal to that extent stands partly allowed. 17. As regards the question of deputation, we are of the view that an employee of MSCo when deputed to MSAS does not become an employee of MSAS. A deputationist has a lien on his employment with MSCo. As long as the lien remains with MSCo the said company retains control over the deputationist’s terms and employment. The concept of a service PE finds place in the UN Convention. It is constituted if the multinational enterprise renders services through its employees in India provided the services are rendered for a specified period. In this case, it extends to two years on the request of MSAS. It is important to note that where the activities of the multinational enterprise entails it being responsible for the work of deputationists and the employees continue to be on the payroll of the multinational enterprise or they continue to have their lien on their jobs with the multinational enterprise, a service PE can emerge. 18. Applying the above tests to the facts of this case we find that on request/requisition from MSAS the applicant deputes its staff. The request comes from MSAS depending upon its requirement. Generally, occasions do arise when MSAS needs the expertise of the staff of MSCo. In such circumstances, generally, MSAS makes a request to MSCo. A deputationist under such circumstances is expected to be experienced in banking and finance. On completion of his tenure he is repatriated to his parent job. He retains his lien when he comes to India. He lends his experience to MSAS in India as an employee of MSCo as he retains his lien and in that sense there is a service PE (MSAS) under Article 5(2)(l). We find no infirmity in the ruling of ARR on this aspect. In the above situation, MSCo is rendering services through its employees to MSAS. Therefore, the Department is right in its contention that under the above situation there exists a service PE in India (MSAS). Accordingly, the civil appeal filed by the Department stands partly allowed.” (at pages 15-16) 18. It has already been seen that none of the customers of the assessees are located in India or have received any services in India. This being the case, it is clear that the very first ingredient contained in Article 5(2)(l) is not satisfied. However, the learned Attorney General, relying upon paragraph 42.31 of the OECD Commentary, has argued that services have to be furnished within India, which does not mean that they have to be furnished to customers in India. Para 42.31 of the OECD Commentary reads as under: “Whether or not the relevant services are furnished to a resident of a state does not matter: what matters is that the services are performed in the State through an individual present in that State.” (ix) Based upon the said paragraph, Shri Venugopal has argued that in assessment year 2005-06, two employees of the American firm were seconded in India and that, therefore, it is clear that management of the American company through these employees has obviously taken place. The High Court, in dealing with this contention, has found as follows: “62. The appellants had pleaded before the authorities and the tribunal that prior to assessment year 2005-06 not even a single employee of the assessee ever visited India even for a short period and in 2005-06, two employees of e-Fund were transferred to e-Fund India and that the entire expenditure for these two employees were borne by e-Fund India. No employees were present in India after 2005-06. Presence of employees in India is relevant under Article 5(2)(l) but the said employees should furnish services within the contracting State. These services should not be mere stewardship services. The Assessing Officer has recorded that employees were seconded to e-Fund India but the functions they performed and whether they performed functions and reported to e-Fund Corp/associated enterprise was not known or ascertained. This was not the correct way of determining and deciding whether service PE existed. Whether the seconded employees were performing stewardship services or were directly involved with the working operations was relevant. It is also not known whether the services were performed related to services provided to an associated enterprise in which case clause 5(2)(l)(ii) would be applicable. In the said situation, the question of attribution of income etc. would also arise. (x) Two employees of e-Fund Corp were deputed to e-Fund India in the assessment years 2005-06. The case of the assessee and e-Fund India is that they were deputed to look towards development of domestic work in India. Payment of these employees as per the Revenue to the extent of 25% was borne by e-Fund India and balance 75% was borne by e-Fund Corp. The Assessing Officer on this basis has observed that this reduced cost base of e-Fund India as remuneration was paid by e- Fund Corp and the said employees were at liberty to perform functions of e-Fund Corp even while working for e-Fund India. The response of the assessee as quoted in the assessment order was that e-Fund India, apart from export activities had also domestic business in India. This was evident from the return of income filed by e-Fund India where domestic income was computed separately as it was not eligible for deduction under Section 10A of the Act. Copy of the return was furnished. It was further stated that cost of personnel seconded in India was fully borne by e-Fund India i.e. 100% of the salary paid to the said employees seconded to India were debited to profit and loss accounts. 75% of the salary component was paid abroad by e-Fund Corp but the same was reimbursed by e-Fund India. This was in accordance with and permitted under the Indian Exchange Control Regulations. It was further stated that the Assessing Officer was wrong in assuming that the two seconded employees were at liberty to function for e-Fund Corp while they were working for e-Fund India. The seconded employees were working under the control and supervision of e-Fund India. The Assessing Officer thereupon has not commented on the reply of the assessee, though he has recorded comments in respect of replies to other issues raised by him (see paragraph 7 of the assessment order). The aforesaid factual assertion made by the assessee, therefore, was not negated or questioned by the Assessing Officer.” (xi) We entirely agree with the approach of the High Court in this regard. Article 42.31 of the OECD Commentary does not mean that services need not be rendered by the foreign assessees in India. If any customer is rendered a service in India, whether resident in India or outside India, a “service PE” would be established in India. As has been noticed by us hereinabove, no customer, resident or otherwise, receives any service in India from the assessees. All its customers receive services only in locations outside India. Only auxiliary operations that facilitate such services are carried out in India. This being so, it is not necessary to advert to the other ground namely, that “other personnel” would cover personnel employed by the Indian company as well, and that the US companies through such personnel are furnishing services in India. This being the case, it is clear that as the very first part of Article 5(2)(l) is not attracted, the question of going to any other part of the said Article does not arise. It is perhaps for this reason that the assessing officer did not give any finding on this score. (xii) Shri Ganesh has argued before us that the “agency PE” aspect of the case need not be gone into as it was given up before the ITAT. He is right in this submission as no argument on this score is found before the ITAT. However, for the sake of completeness, it is only necessary to agree with the High Court, that it has never been the case of Revenue that e-Funds India was authorized to or exercised any authority to conclude contracts on behalf of the US company, nor was any factual foundation laid to attract any of the said clauses contained in Article 5(4) of the DTAA. This aspect of the case, therefore, need not detain us any further. (xiii) Shri Ganesh has referred to and relied upon an order of the Additional Taxation Commissioner, who is the Transfer Pricing Officer. A perusal of the above would show that a competent authority should engage in discussion with the other competent authority in a principled, fair and objective manner, with each case being decided on its own merits. It is also specifically observed that where an agreement is not otherwise achievable, then both parties should look for appropriate opportunities for compromise in order to eliminate double taxation on the facts of the case, even though a principled approach is important. The learned Attorney General also relied upon Best Practice No.1 of the said OECD Manual, which requires the publication of mutual agreements reached that may apply to a general category of taxpayers which would then improve guidance for the future. Best Practice No.1 has no application on the facts of the present case, as the agreement reached applies only to the respondent companies, and not to any general category of taxpayers. It is clear, therefore, that Shri Ganesh is right in relying upon Article 3.6 of the OECD Manual. It is very clear, therefore, that such agreement cannot be considered as a precedent for subsequent years, and the High Court’s conclusion on this aspect is also correct. (xiv) The learned Attorney General has also laid great emphasis on non-disclosure of documents and has relied upon a long list of documents that the assessees were asked to disclose and which they did not. From this, according to the learned Attorney General, an adverse inference should be drawn, and from this alone it should be inferred that a PE of the assessees, therefore, exists in India. We are afraid that this argument cannot be countenanced at this stage as it has never been raised before any of the authorities below and has not been raised before the High Court also. This being the case, we do not think it necessary to get into this aspect of the matter. (xv) Having held in favour of the assessees that no permanent establishment in India can possibly be said to exist on the facts of the present case, we do not deem it necessary to go into the cross-appeals that were filed before the High Court, which were dismissed by the High Court agreeing with the ITAT that the calculation of the ITAT would lead to nil taxation. This point would not arise in view of our decision on the facts of the present case. It is, therefore, unnecessary to go into this aspect of the matter. Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Related Judgements Formula One World Championship Limited vs. CIT (Supreme Court) The term “place of business” is explained as covering any premises, facilities or installations used for carrying on the business of the enterprise whether or not they are used exclusively for that purpose. It is clarified that a place of business may also exist where no premises are available… GE Energy Parts Inc vs. ADIT (ITAT Delhi) The expats of GEII and employees of GEIIPL were appointed to act as agent of multiple GE overseas enterprises. It is nobody’s case that they were otherwise acting as agents of independent status working for other third parties in India. This proves that expats and employees of GEEIPL acted… Swiss Re-insurance Company Limited vs. DDIT (ITAT Mumbai) The AO is not right in (i) treating the assessee as having a Dependent Agency Permanent Establishment; (ii) laying down that the assessee has a business connection in India; (iii) treating SRSIPL as service PE and (iv) treating SRSIPL as Agency PERead more › Nortel Networks India International Inc vs. DIT (Delhi High Court) The controversy whether the Assessee has a PE in India is interlinked to the finding that Nortel India had discharged some of the obligations of the Assessee under the Equipment Contract. Whilst, the Income Tax Authorities have held that the contracts entered into with Reliance – the Equipment Contact,… Adobe Systems Inc vs. ADIT (Delhi High Court) Even if the subsidiary of a foreign company is considered as its PE, only such income as is attributable in terms of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 7 can be brought to tax. In the present case, there is no dispute that Adobe India – which according to… ‹ CIT vs. Madhur Housing And Development Co (Supreme Court) Orbit Enterprises vs. ITO (ITAT Mumbai) › One comment on “ADIT vs. E-Funds IT Solution Inc (Supreme Court)” Article says: December 6, 2022 at 12:19 pm German company (Foreign Company) employee come to India for providing production services like stunt design and choreographic services for 30 days is services PE establish as in DTAA of india and germany ther is no Services pe related clause can foreign company availed any benefit of DTAA or its required to pay tax as per income tax @ 40% plus education cess 4% Categories — all — AAR All Judgements High Court Others Supreme Court Tribunal Tags — all — recovery of taxes trans judges — all — A. A. Sayed J A. B. Chaudhari J A. C. Rao J A. D. Jain (JM) A. G. Uraizee J A. I. S. Cheema J A. J. Shastri J A. K. Chawla J A. K. Garodia (AM) A. K. Menon J. A. K. Patnaik J A. M. Badar J A. M. Khanwilkar CJ A. M. Khanwilkar J A. Mohan Alankamony (AM) A. N. Venugopala Gowda J A. P. Bhangale J A. S. Bopanna J A. S. Gadkari J A. S. Oka J A. T. Varkey (JM) A. V. Chandrashekara J A. V. Nirgude J A.K. Sikri J. A.M.Shaffique J Abdul Quddhose J Abhay Ahuja J Abhay Manohar Sapre J Abhijit Gangopadhyay J Abraham P. George (AM) Adarsh Kumar Goel J Ajay Kumar Mittal J Ajay Mohan J Ajay Rastogi J Ajay Tewari J Akil Kureshi J Alok Aradhe J Alok Singh J Alok Verma J Amarjit Singh (JM) Amit Shukla (JM) Amitabha Chatterjee J Amitava Roy J Amrita Sinha J Anadee Nath Misshra (AM) Anil Chaturvedi (AM) Anil K. Narendran J Anil R. Dave J Aniruddha Bose J Anita Sumanth J Annapurna Gupta (AM) Annapurna Mehrotra (AM) Antony Dominic J Anup Jairam Bhambhani J Aravind Kumar J Arindam Sinha J Arun Mishra J Asha Arora J Asha Vijayaraghavan (JM) Ashok Bhan J Ashok Bhushan J Ashok Kumar Gaur J Ashok Menon J Ashutosh Kumar J Ashwani Taneja (AM) Ashwani Taneja(AM) Avneesh Jhungan J B. C. Meena (AM) B. Manohar J B. N. Karia J B. P. Colabawalla J B. P. Dharmadhikari J B. P. Jain (AM) B. R. Baskaran (AM) B. R. Gavai J B. R. R. Kumar (AM) B. Rajendran J B. Ramakotiah (AM) B. Sreenivase Gowda J B. Veerappa J B.S.V Prakash Kumar (JM) Badar Durrez Ahmed J Beena Pillai (JM) Bhagchand (AM) Bharati H. Dangre J Bharati Sapru J Bhargav D. Karia J Bhavnesh Saini (JM) Bimal Julka Biren Vaishnav J Biswajit Mohanty J Biswanath Somadder J C Saravanan J C. L. Soni J C. M. Garg (JM) C. N. Prasad (JM) C. V. Bhadang J C. V. Karthikeyan J Challa Kodanda Ram J Challa Nagendra Prasad (JM) Chander Shekhar J Chandra Poojari (AM) Chief Justice D. Karunakara Rao (AM) D. Manmohan VP D. T. Garasia (JM) D. Y. Chandrachud CJ D. Y. Chandrachud J Dama Seshadri Naidu J Debangsu Basak J Deepa Sharma J Deepak Gupta J Deepak Sibal J Dev Darshan Sud J Devan Ramachandran J Dilip Gupta J Dinesh Maheshwari J Dipak Misra CJI Dipak Misra J Diva Singh (JM) Dr. A. L. Saini (AM) Dr. Kaushal Jayendra Thaker J Dr. Manjula Chellur CJ Dr. Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi J Dr. Vineet Kothari J Duvvuru RL Reddy (JM) F. M. Reis J Fateh Deep Singh J G. C. Gupta (VP) G. D. Agrawal (P) G. D. Agrawal (VP) G. M. Akbar Ali J G. Manjunatha (AM) G. Narendar J G. Pavan Kumar (JM) G. R. Udhwani J G. S. Kulkarni J G. S. Pannu (AM) G. S. Pannu (VP) G. S. Patel J G. S. Sandhawalia J. George George K (JM) George Mathan (JM) Girish Chandra Gupta J Gudiseva Shyam Prasad J Gudivasa Shyam Prasad J H. G. Ramesh J H. L. Dattu CJI H. L. Karwa H. L. Karwa VP H. S. Sidhu (JM) H. T. Narendra Prasad J Hari Om Maratha (JM) Harnaresh Singh Gill J Harsha Devani J. Hemant Gupta J Hrishikesh Roy J I. C. Sudhir (JM) I. Mahanty J I. P. Bansal (JM) I. P. Mukerji J I. R. Shaikh I. S. Mehta J Ilesh J Vora J Inderjeet Singh J Indira Banerjee CJ Indira Banerjee J Indira Jain J Indrajit Chatterjee J Indu Malhotra J Inturi Rama Rao (AM) J. Chelameswar J. J. P. Devadhar J J. R. Midha J J. S. Khehar J Jagdish Singh Khehar J. Jason P. Boaz (AM) Jayant Patel J JB Pardiwala J Joginder Singh (JM) John Michael Cunha J K. J. Thaker J K. K. Tated J K. K. Trivedi J K. L. Wadane J K. M. Joseph CJ K. M. Joseph J K. N. Charry (JM) K. Narasimha Chary (JM) K. S. Jhaveri J K. Vinod Chandran J Kalpesh Satyendra Jhaveri J Kalyan Jyoti J Krishna Murari J Kul Bharat (JM) Kuldip Singh (JM) Kurian Joseph J L. Nageswara Rao J L. Narasimha Reddy J L. P. Sahu (AM) Laliet Kumar (JM) M. Balganesh (AM) M. Jaichandren J M. Nagaprasanna J M. R. Shah J M. S. Jawalkar J M. S. Karnik J M. S. Mungale ASJ M. S. Sanklecha J M. S. Sonak J M. Sathyanarayanan J M. Sundar J M. V. Muralidaran J Madan B. Lokur J Madhu Mohan Damodhar (TM) Madhumita Roy (JM) Mahavir Prasad (JM) Mahavir Singh (JM) Manish Borad (AM) Manish Pitale J Manmohan Singh J Manoj Kumar Aggarwal (AM) Mihir Kumar Jha Milind D. Jadhav J Milind N. Jadhav J Mitha Lal Meena (AM) Mohan M. Shantagoudar J Mohit Shah CJ Mridula Bhatkar Mridula Bhatkar J Mukul Shrawat (JM) N. Barathvaja Sankar (VP) N. K. Billaiya (AM) N. K. Choudhry (JM) N. K. Patil J N. K. Pradhan (AM) N. K. Saini (AM) N. Kirubakaran J N. Kumar J N. M. Jamdar J N. S. Saini (AM) N. V. Ramana J N. V. Vasudevan (JM) N.R.S. Ganesan (JM) Najmi Waziri J Navin Sinha J Nitin Jamdar J Nooty Ramamohana Rao J Nutan D. Sardesai J O. P. Kant (AM) P. B. Suresh Kumar J P. K. Bansal (AM) P. K. S. Baghel J P. M. Jagtap P. Madhavi Devi (JM) P. N. Deshmukh J P. N. Prakash J P. R. Ramachandra Menon J P.M.Jagtap (AM) Pankaj Mithal J Partha Sarathi Chaudhury (JM) Pavan Kumar Gadale (JM) Pawan Singh (JM) Pawan Singh Rajawat (ACMM) Pinaki Chandra Ghose J PP Bhatt (President) Pradip Kumar Kedia (AM) Prafulla C. Pant J Prakash D. Naik J Pramod Kumar (AM) Pramod Kumar (VP) Prashant Kumar Mishra J Prashant Maharishi (AM) Prateek Jalan J Pratibha M. Singh J President Prithviraj K. Chavan J R. Banumathi J R. Bhanumathi J R. C R. C. Sharma (AM) R. D. Dhanuka J R. K. Agrawal J R. K. Deshpande J R. K. Gauba J R. K. Panda (AM) R. Karuppiah J R. M. Savant J R. P. Dholeria J R. P. Tolani (JM) R. S. Padvekar (JM) R. S. Sarkale ACCM R. S. Syal (AM) R. S. Syal (VP) R. Subhash Reddy J R. Sudhakar J R.F. Nariman J R.M. Lodha CJI Raghavendra S. Chauhan J Raj Rahul Garg J Rajendra (AM) Rajesh Kumar (AM) Rajiv Sahai Endlaw J Rajiv Shakdher J Rajive Bhalla J Rajpal Yadav (JM) Ram Lal Negi (JM) Ramendra Jain J Ramesh C. Sharma (AM) Ramesh Ranganathan CJ Ramesh Ranganathan J Ramit Kochar (AM) Ranjan Gogoi J Rathnakala J Ravikumar Duraisamy (TM) Ravindra Bhat J Ravindra Nath Mishra J Ravish Sood (JM) Rekha Mittal J Riyaz I. Chagla J Rohinton Fali Nariman J. S. A. Bobde CJI S. A. Bobde J S. Abdul Nazeer J S. C. Dharmadhikari J S. C. Gupte J S. C. Sharma J S. H. Vora J S. J. Kathawallla J S. J. Vajifdar CJ S. J. Vazifdar CJ S. M. Modak J S. Manikumar J S. Muralidhar J S. Rifaur Rahman (AM) S. S. Godara (JM) S. S. Sundar J S. S. Viswanethra Ravi (JM) S. S. Viwanethra Ravi (JM) S. Sujatha J S. V. Gangapurwala J S. V. Mehrotra (AM) S. Vimala J Saktijit Dey (JM) Sandeep Gosain (JM) Sandeep K. Shinde J Sangeeta K. Vishen J Sangita Dhingra Sehgal J Sanjay Arora (AM) Sanjay Garg (JM) Sanjay Karol J Sanjay Kishan Kaul J Sanjay Kumar Gupta J Sanjay Kumar J Sanjeev Narula J Sanjeev Sachdeva J Sanjib Banerjee J Sanjiv Khanna J Sankar Prasad Mitra J Sarang V. Kotwal J Sarathi Chaudhury (JM) Satish Chandra J Saumitra Dayal Singh J Shailendra Yadav (JM) Shaji P. Chaly J Shamim Yahya (AM) Sharad Kumar Sharma J Shekhar B. Saraf J Siddharth Mridul J Sonia Gokani J Subhro Kamal Mukherjee J Subramoniam Prasad J Suchitra Kamble (JM) Sudhakar Reddy (AM) Sudhanshu Dhulia J Sudhanshu Jyoti Mukhopadhaya Sudhanshu Srivastava (JM) Sudhir Agarwal J Suneet Kumar J Sunil B. Shukre J Sunil Kumar Yadav (JM) Sunil P. Deshmukh J Surya Kant J Sushma Chowla (JM) Swapna Joshi J T. Mathivanan J T. R. Meena (AM) T. R. Sood (AM) T. S. Kapoor (AM) T. S. Sivagnanam J T. S. Thakur J Talwant Singh J U.B.S. Bedi (JM) Uday Umesh Lalit J Ujjal Bhuyan J Uma Devi J Umesh Trivedi J V. Bhavani Subbaroyan J V. C. Daga J V. Durga Rao (JM) V. Gopala Gowda J V. K. Jadhav J V. Kameswar Rao J V. M. Deshpande J V. M. Kanade J V. Ramasubramanian J V. S. Sirpurkar J Vasanti A. Naik J Veerendr Singh Sirdhana J Vibha Kankanwadi J Vibhu Bakhru J Vijay Kumar Vyas J Vijay Manohar Sahai J Vijay Pal Rao (JM) Vikas Awasthy (JM) Vikram Singh Yadav (AM) Vineet Saran J Vinod Kumar Misra J vipin Sanghi J Vipin Sangi J Virender Singh J Vivek Varma (JM) Waseem Ahmed (AM) Yashwant Varma J sections — all — - 10 10 B(1)(a) 10(10D) 10(19A) 10(20) 10(23)(vi) 10(23C) (iv) 10(23C)(iiiab) 10(23C)(iv) 10(23C)(via) 10(3) 10(37) 10(38) 100 CPC 10A 10AA 10B 10B (1)(e)(iii) 10B(3) 11 11(1)(a) 11(6) 113 115-O 115A 115BBA 115BBC 115BBE 115JA 115JB 115QA 115VA 115VF 115VG 119 119(2)(b) 12 120(4) 127 12A 12AA 12AA(2) 12AA(3) 13 131(1) 131(1A) 132 132(4) 132A 133A 139(1) 139(3) 139(5) 139AA 140A 142(1) 142(2A) 142(2C) 142A 143 143(1) 143(1A) 143(1D) 143(2) 143(20 143(3) 144 144 CPC 144B 144C 145 145(2) 145(3) 145A 147 148 14A 15 150 150(1) 151 153 153(2A) 153A 153B 153C 153D 154 158B 158BB 158BC 158BD 158BE 158BFA(1) 158BFA(2) 158BH 159 160 160(1)(iv) 161(1) 163 164 164(1) 17 17(2)(iii) 17(2)(vi) 17(3)(iii) 170 170(2) 172 176 18 18 of Limitation Act 184(5) 19(23C)(vi) 192 194 194-H 194-I 194-IA 194-J 194A 194C 194E 194LA 195 195 CrPC 197 197A 1988 199 2(14) 2(15) 2(1A) 2(22)(d) 2(22)(e) 2(24) 2(24)(iia) 2(24)(x) 2(24)(xvi) 2(31) 2(35) 2(42A) 2(42C) 2(43) 2(47) 2(47)(v) 2(47)(vi) 2(7) of the Interest-tax Act 2(7A) 200 200A 201 201(1) 201(1A) 201(3) 205 206AA 206C 207 208 209 22 220(2) 220(6) 221(1) 225 226 226(3) 227 &amp; 323B of Constitution of India 23 23(1)(c) 234A 234B 234C 234D 234E 237 24 241A 244 244A 244A(1)(b) 245 245(2A) 245C 245F 245R 246 246A 249(3) 249(4) 24AA Surtax Act 25 250 251` 252(1) 253 253(1) 253(2) 253(3) 253(5) 254 254(1) 254(2) 254(2A) 255(3) 255(4) 256(1) 256(2) 26(4) of Kar Agr I. T. Act 260A 263 264 268A 269SS 269T 271(1-B) 271(1)(c) 271AAA 271AAB 271B 271C 271D 271E 271FA 271G 272A(1)(c) 272A(2)(c) 272A(2)(k) 273(2)(a) 273B 274 275(1)(c) 275(1A) 276A 276B 276C 277 278AA 278AB 278B 278D 278E 279 279(1) 27A of Wealth-tax Act 28 28(iv) 28(va) 281B 282 29 292B 292BB 292C 293(c) 3 30 31 32 32(1)(ii) 32(2) 35(2AB) 35AB 35AC 35D 36(1)(iii) 36(1)(va) 36(1)(vii) 36(1)(viii) 36(2) 37 37(1) 37(2A) 4 40(a)(i) 40(a)(ia) 40(a)(ii) 40(a)(iii) 40(b)(v) 40(ba) 405 IPC 40A(2) 40A(2)(b) 40A(3) 40A(8) 40A(9) 41(1) 42 43(1) 43(5) 43(5)(a) 43(6) 43(6)(c) 43B 43CB 43D 44AB 44BB 44C 44D 44DA 45 45(4) 45(5) 468 CrPC 46A 47(ii) 47(iii) 47(iv) 47(vii) 47(xiiib) 47A(4) 48 482 CrPC 49 49(1) 5 5 of Limitation Act 5(1) 5(2)(b) 50 50B 50C 53A 54 54B 54EC 54F 54G 55 55A 56 56(1)(viib) 56(2)(vi) 56(2)(vii) 56(2)(viia) 56(2)(viib) 56(viib) 560(5) Companies Act 1956 58 6 6(6)(a) 61 63 68 69 69A 69B 69C 70(3) 72A 72A(6A) 73 79 80 80-H 80-I 80-IA 80-IA(4) 80-IB 80-IB(10) 80-IB(9) 80-IC 80-O 80AB 80G(5) 80HH 80HHC 80HHE 80IA 80IA(2A) 80IA(4) 80IA(9) 80IB(10) 80IB(7) 80P 80V 9 9(1) 9(1)(i) 9(1)(ii) 9(1)(v)(b) 9(1)(vi) 9(1)(vii) 90 90(2) 90(3) 90(4) 92 92A 92A(2) 92B 92BA(i) 92C 92C(1) 92C(1)(a) 92C(3) 92CA 92CA(1) 92CA(3) 92CB 92D 92F Advocates Act 1972 Article 11 Article 12 Article 13(4) Article 136 Article 14 Article 141 Article 142 Article 15 Article 16(1) Article 19(1)(g) Article 21 Article 226 Article 227 Article 23 Article 24 Article 26 Article 3 Article 5 Article 7 Article 8 Article 9 Article5 Artkcle 141 AS-11 Bar Council of India Rules 1975 Benami Transactions Prohibition Act Black Money Act Bombay High Court Rules Chapter VI-A Code Of Conduct Commercial Taxes Companies Act Constitution of India Contempt of Courts Act Contract Act CPC Cr. P. C CrPC CST Act Customs Act DTAA Education Cess Evidence Act Excise Act Excise Duty Explanation 10 to s. 43(1) Explanation 2 to s. 132B Explanation 7 to s. 271(1)(c) Explanation to s. 37 Explanation to s. 73 Extension of stay orders GAAR Gold Control Act 1968 GST Act Hindu Law Hindu Succession Act 1956 HUF Law ICAI Act India-Germany DTAA India-UAE DTAA India-USA DTAA Indian Penal Code Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 Interest-tax Act interpretation of statutes ITAT Appointment Rules ITAT Members Appointment Rules LLP Act Natural Justice Negotiable Instruments Act Notification no. 91 of 2008 dated 28.08.2008 Prevention of Corruption Act Registration Act RTI Act Rule 10A Rule 10AB Rule 10B Rule 10B(1)(b) Rule 10B(1)(d) Rule 10C Rule 10THB Rule 10THD Rule 11 ITAT Rules Rule 11 UA(2)(a) Rule 11U(b)(ii) Rule 11UA Rule 127 Rule 2 of Schedule II Rule 24 Rule 27 Rule 28AA Rule 32A Rule 34(5)(c) Rule 37BA Rule 45 Rule 46A Rule 658 Rule 68 of Second Schedule Rule 6D Rule 6DD Rule 8D Rule 9C Rule_10B Rules 18 and 29 of ITAT Rules s 138 Negotiable Instruments Act S 3 of Indian Evidence Act S. 114 Of Evidence Act s. 14 of partnership Act s. 19 Bihar Finance Act 1981 S. 21 of General Clauses Act S. 24 of General Clauses Act S. 34 of the Evidence Act S. 80-IB(10)(d) Sales-tax Act SARFAESI Act second proviso Section 2(42A) Section 37 Partnership Act Securities Transaction Tax (STT) Service-tax Act Strictures Tribunal Appointment Rules under Article 224A Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme Wealth-tax Act counsels — all — - A. B. Patil A. K. Gupta A. K. Jasani A. K. Lal A. K. Sanghi A. K. Tibrewal A. K. Tulsiyan A. N. S. Nadkarni A. P. Shrivastava A. Shankar A. Srinivas A. T. M. Ranga Ramanujam A. V. Raghuram A. Vissanjee A. Vissanji A.S. Narayanamoorthy Aakash Mansinka Aarti N Shah Aarti Sathe Aasifa Khan Abhay Jadeja Abhijeet Sinha Abhijit Dilip Sarwate Abhimanyu Jhamba Abhinav Mehrotra Abhinav Sharma Abhishek Padwalkar Abhishek Sharma Abhishek Tilak Abhratosh Majumdar Aditya Ajgaonkar Aditya Bohra Agarwal Aishwarya Bhati Ajay Gandhi Ajay R. Singh Ajay Singh Ajay Vohra Ajay Wadhwa Ajit Sharma Ajit U. Amdekar Ajith Anand Shetty Akhilesh Kumar Akhileshwar Sharma Akshat Shrivastava Akshay Bhan Alok Saksena Amin Merchant Amit Arora Amit Desai Amit Goel Amit Khatiwala Amit Mishra Anagha S. Desai Anand Pasari Anand Sanjay M. Nuli Ananya Kapoor Anil C. Nishant Anil Chopra Anil D. Nair Anil Kochar Anil Nair Anil Singh ASG Anil Thakrar Anjali Jha Manish Ankit Agarwal Ankit Vijaywargia Ankul Goyal Anupam Dighe Anurag Sinha Arati Vissanji Arijit Chakrabarti Arijit Chakravarty Arijit Prasad Arpit Agarwal Arta Trana Panda Arun Chabbra Arun Ganesh Jogdeo Arun Raj S Arun Sathe Arvind Datar Arvind Kumar Arvind Pinto Arvind Sonde Ashish Goyal Ashish Mohan Ashok Bhalla Ashok Bhatia Ashok Jayawant Patil Ashok Kotangle Ashwani Gupta Ashwani Kalia Ashwani Kumar Ashwani Taneja Ashwani Tanjeja Asif I. Patel Attorney General Atul Goyal Atul Jasani Atul Ninawat Awdhesh Kumar B. K. Manjunatha B. L. Gandhi B. M. Chatterji B. Narasimha Sarma B. Ramana Kumar B. S. Balachandran B. S. Soparkar B. Satyanarayana Murthy B. V. Balaram Das B. V. Jhaveri Babu Prasad Baij Nath Patel Balasaheb Yevale Balbir Singh Bansuri Swaraj Basava Prabhu Patil Bharat Damodar Bharat Gandhi Bharat Kumar Bharat Raichandani Bharath Janarthanan Bhargava V. Desai Bhupendra Shah Bidhan Chandra Rai Bijay Panda Bishwajit Bhattacharyya Brijesh Singh C. A. Sundaram C. H. Naniwadekar C. J. Thakkar C. Kameswara Rao C. N. Sreekumar C. Naresh C. P. Ramaswamy C. S. Agarwal C. S. Aggarwal C. Subrahmanyam C. V. S. Murthy CA Nishant Maitin CA Sundaram CBM Warrier Chandni Tanna Chetan Karia Chetan Pandya Chinmayee Chandra Chirag Shetty Chitranajan Bharadia Chythanya K. K CIT-DR Amitabh Kumar Sinha CIT-DR Indrjit Singh D S Damle D. C. Jain D. L. Chidanand D. V. Anjaneyulu D. V. Lakhani Darshan B Gandhi Darshan Patel Debesh Panda Deepa Khare Deepak Chopra Deepak Tralshawalla Deepika Sekar Devendra Jain Devendra Singh Devina Sharma Dhanesh Bafna Dharan Gandhi Dharmesh Shah Dhiren Shah Dhruv Agarwal Dhruv Aggarwal Dhruv Mehta Dinesh Goyal Dinesh Vyas Dinkle Haria Dipendra Mohan Dishesh Shrivastava Divesh Chawla Dr Birendra Saraf Dr. Abhinav Chandrachud Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi Dr. Aman Hingorani Dr. Anitha Sumanth Dr. K. Shivram Dr. Lalit Bhasin Dr. Manish Singhvi Dr. P. Daniel Dr. Rakesh Gupta Dr. S M Lala Dushyant Dave Elson Sequeira Ex-parte F. V. Irani Firdos Mirza Firoze Andhyarujina G C Srivastava G. Balaji G. Baskar G. C. Pipara G. M. Mehta G. N. Reddy G. P. Mehta G. S. Pikale G. Venkatesh Gargi Bhagwat Gaurav Agrawal Gaurav Bharadwaj Gaurav Jain Gaurav Joshi Gaurav Kabra Gaurav Mahajan Gaurav Sharma Gaurav V. Kathed Gautam Jain Geetanjali Mohan Girish Dave Gopal Krishna Shivaram Hegde Gopal Ram Sharma Gopal Subramanium Govind Jhaveri Gunjan Pathak Guru Krishna Kumar Guru Krishnakumar Gyan Pipara H. N. Khincha H. P. Agarwal H. P. Ranina H. Raghavendra Rao H. Srinivasulu Hardik P Modi Haresh G. Buch Haresh P. Shah Hari S. Raheja Harinder Toor Hariom Tulsyan Harish Salve Harsh Bafna Harsh Kapadia Harsh Kothari Harsh Shah Harshvardhana Datar Harshwardhabn Datar Hemang Gargieya Hemant Kumar Arora Hemant Sethi Himanshu Gandhi Himanshu S. Sinha Himanshu Shekhar Sinha Hirali Desai Hiren Mehta Hiren Trivedi Hiro Rai Hiten Chande Hitesh Kaplish Huzefa Ahmadi Huzefa Ahmedi Imtiaz Ahmed Inder Paul Bansal Indira Anand Indu Malhotra Inturi Rama Rao Iype John J. B. Mishra J. D. Mistry J. J. Mehrotra J. J. Pardiwalla J. P. Bairagra J. P. Khaitan J. P. Shah J. S. Bhasin J.D. Mistri Jabbar Shaikh Jaideep Gupta Jas Sanghavi Jas Sanghvi Jascinta Zimik Vashai Jasmin Amalsaduala Jay Bhansali Jay Savla Jayesh Dolia Jeet Kamdar Jignesh R. Shah Jinita Chatterjee Jitendra Jain Jitendra Motwani Jitendra Sanghavi Jitendra Singh JK Mittal Jose Jacob Joseph Kodianthara Joseph Markos Joy Kuriakose Jyoti Narula K C Moondra K Vasantkumar K. A. Aravind K. B. Mohammed Kutty K. Balakrishnan K. C. Devdas K. G. Raghavan K. Gopal K. K. Chaitanya K. K. Chythanya K. K. Sharma K. K. Venugopal K. L. Dharmadhikari AGP K. Meenakshi Sundaran K. Neeraja K. P. Dewani K. P. Ganguli K. P. Gaunguli K. P. Paulson K. Parameshwar K. R. Chhabra K. R. Lakshminarayanan K. R. Manjani K. R. Rastogi K. R. Sekar K. R. Vasudevan K. Radhakrishnan K. S. Hanumantha Rao K. V. Aravind K. V. Mohan Kaanan Kapur Kadambari Dave Kailash Chand Kalpesh Turalkar Kanchan Kaushal Kanchun Kaushal Kapil Goel Kapil Goyal Karishma Phatarphekar Karishma Popat Phatarphekar Karishma R Phatarphekar Kavin Gulati Kavita Jha Kedar Phadke Keshav Bhujle Ketan Ved Kiran S. Javali Kiran Suri Kirit N. Mehta Kirit Sheth Kishor Phadke Kishore Phadke KR Patel Krishna V. Gujrathi Krishnan Venugopal Kuldeep Dhiman Kushagra Pandey L. D. Vakil Lakshmikumaran Lalith Kumar Laxminiwas Sharma M K Patel M S Syali M. G. Moryani M. H. Patil M. K. Gautam M. Karunagaran M. M. Golvala M. P. Lohia M. P. Rastogi M. P. Senthilkumar M. R. Shah M. Rajshirke M. S. Mathuria M. S. Vohra M. Selvakumar M. Sivathanu M. Subramanian M. Swaminathan Madhur Agrawal Mahabir Singh Mahalakshmi Pawani Mahendra Gargieya Mahesh Saboo Mala Goel Manasvini Bajpai Mandar Vaidya Mangar Shukla Manish J. Shah Manish J. Sheth Manish K. Kaji Manish Kant Manish Kanth Manish Pushkarna Manish R Bhatt Manish Tiwari Manoj Kataruka Manoj Khurana Manoj Kumar Manoj N. Makhania Manoj Shirsat Manoj Swarup Manshi Padhiar Manthan Shah Manu Monga Mathew Joseph Mathew Nedumpara Mayank Jain Mayank Nagi Megha Sharma Meghraj Mehul Agarwal Mihir Joshi Mihir Naniwadekar Mihir Thakore Miraj D. Shah Mohan Parasaran Monika Ghai MR Bhatt Mrugakshi K Joshi Mrunal Parekh Mukesh Advani Mukesh Bhutani Mukesh Butani Mukesh Patel Mukul Rohatgi Muniyappa N. C. Jain N. C. Mohanty N. K. Poddar N. K. Sahi N. K. Saini N. K. Shahi N. K. Shrimal N. L. Agarwal N. M. Porwal N. M. Ranka N. P. Sahni N. R. Agrawal N. S. Bhattad N. V. Balaji N. V. Nadkarni N. Venkataraman N. Vijay Kumar Nageshwar Rao Nakul Dewan Narendra Sharma Naresh Jain Naresh Kumar Natasha Mangat Naveen Kumar Mishra Navtej Kumar Neelam Jadhav Neelkanth Khandelwal Neeraj Jain Neeraj Kaul Neha Paranjpe Nidhesh Gupta Nikhil Nayyar Nikhil Pai Nikhil Pathak Nikhilesh Begani Nikita Badeka Nilesh Patel Nimesh Chotani Niraj Sheth Nishant Thakkar Nishit Gandhi Nitesh Gandhi Nitesh Joshi Nitin Narang Nitin P. Deshpande Nupur Shah O. D. Kakade O. P. Mody P. B. Balakrishnan P. C. Chhotaray P. C. Parwal P. C. Tripathi P. Chidambaram P. Daniel P. H. Parekh P. K. Kapoor P. K. Shahi P. M. Choudhari P. M. Choudhary P. Murali Mohan Rao P. N. Arora P. R. Kothari P. R. Mullick P. Ramesh Kumar P. Rao P. Soma Sekhar Reddy P. V. Kapur P. V. Surte P.J. Pardiwalla Padamchand Khincha Pankaj Garg Pankaj Gupta Pankaj Jain Pankaj Mishra Pankaj R. Toprani Pankaj Shah Parag Tripathi Paras Savla Paresh Shaparia Parikshit Agarwal Parikshit Aggarwal Parveen Kumar Aggarwal Paurami Sheth Pavan Ved Pawan Kumar Percy Pardiwala Phiroz Andhyarujina Pinki Anand Piyush Chawla Piyush Chhajed Piyush Kaushik Pooja Swaroop Poonam Ahuja Porus Kaka Pradeep Dinodia Pradeep K. Sahgal Pradeep N. Kapasi Pradeep S. Jetly Pradyuman Bisht Pragya Koolwal Prakash Chand Yadav Prakash Jhunjhunwala Prakash Jotwani Prakash Kumar prakash Shah Prakul Khurana Pramita M Biswas Pramod Kumar Parida Pramod Shingte Pranav Badheka Pranjal Srivastava Pranshu Goel Prasanth Srinivas Prashant Bhushan Prathna Jalan Preetesh Kapur Prem Lata Bansal Prem Nath Monga Preteesh Kapur Pretesh Kapur Prithviraj Choudhari Priya Bhalawal Priyadarshi Manish Puneet Jain Pushkar Pandey Pushya Sitaraman R. B. Doshi R. B. Shah R. C. Jain R. Hemalatha R. K. Biswas R. K. Bothra R. K. Patel R. M. Sinha R. Muralidhar R. N. Bajoria R. N. Dutta R. Narendran R. P. Bhat R. P. Bhatt R. Raghunandan R. S. Ahuja R. S. Singhavi R. S. Singhvi R. Sivaraman R. V. Desai R. V. Easwar R. Venkataramani R. Vijaya Narayan R. Vijayaraghavan Radha Raman Tripathy Radha Shyam Jena Radhika Suri Rafiq Dada Raghavendra Rao Raghunathan Sampath Raghuraman V Rahul Chaudhary Rahul Hakani Rahul K. Mitra Rahul R. Sarda Rahul Raman Rahul Sarda Raj Kumar Raj Kumar Gupta Raj Kumar Mehta Rajan Vora Rajat Navei Rajat Navet Rajeev Sogani Rajesh Arora Rajesh Mahana Rajesh Mahna Rajesh Poojary Rajesh Shah Rajesh Simhan Rajiv Jain Rajiv Nayar Rajiv Sogani Rajkumar Singh Rajshekar Rao Rajveer Singh Rakesh Dwivedi Rakesh Garg Rakesh Gupta Rakesh Joshi Rakesh Kumar Khiwani Rakesh Ranjan Agarwal Ram Chandra Prabesh Ram Jethmalani Ramesh Babu Ramesh K. Singhania Ramesh Kumar Patodia Rameshwar Prasad Goyal Ramit Katyal Ramji Srinivasan Ramprakash B. Shroff Rampriyadas Rano Jain Rashi Khanna Rashmi Chopra Rashmi Gupta Rashmikant C. Modi Ravi Kadam Ravi Rattesar Ravi Sharma Ravi Tulsiyan Ravish Sood Reepal G. Tralshawalla Rishabh Jain Ritika Agarwal Ritin Rai Riyaz S. Padvekar Rohan Deshpande Rohan Shah Rohan Sogani Rohit Garg Rohit Jain Rohit Tiwari Roshan Shah Ruchir Bhatia Rupesh Kumar Rutuja Pawar S Venkatraman S. Ananthan S. Anardan S. B. Upadhyay S. Baskar Mathuram S. C. Gupta S. C. Matta S. C. Thakkar S. C. Tiwari S. G. Dalal S. Ganesh S. J. Mehta S. Jhajharia S. K. Agarwal S. K. Bagaria S. K. Gupta S. K. Mukhi S. K. Tulsiyan S. K. Tyagi S. Krishnan S. M. Mathur S. M. Surana S. N. Soparkar S. P. Singh S. Parthasarathy S. R. Anuradha S. R. Sharma S. Raghunathan S. S. Rajeshwara Rao S. Rama Rao S. Ramasubramanyam S. Ravi S. S. Gupta S. S. Kantak S. Sathiyanarayanan S. Sridhar S. Sriram S. V. Adwant S. V. Joshi S.E. Dastur Sachin Datta Sachin Jain Sachit Jolly Sajjan Poovayya Salil Agarwal Salil Kapoor Salman Khurshid Samaraditya Pal Sameer Bhatia Sameer Dalal Sanat Kapoor Sandeep Goel Sandeep Sethi Sangeeta Kumar Sanjay B. Sawant Sanjay Bansal Sanjay Jain Sanjay Jhanwar Sanjay Nath Sanjay R. Parikh Sanjay Shah Sanjay Singh Sanjeev Kwatra Sanjeev Sapra Sanjiv Chaudhary Sanjiv Sabharwal Sanjiv Shah Sanket Joshi Santosh Agarwal Sashank Dandu Sashi Tulsiyan Satish Aggarwal Satish Mody Satyajeet Goel Satyen Sethi Sean Wassodew Shailesh Kumar Shakeel A Qureshi Sham Walve Shambhu Chopra Shanti Bhushan Sharan Jagtiani Sharmila Prabhu Shashi Bekal Shashi N. Kapila Shaswat Bajpai Shilpa Kapil Shipra Ghosh Shiv Prakash Shivan Desai Shobha Jagtiani Shreyash Shah Shubham Agarwal Shyam Divan Shyam Diwan Shyam Lal Agarwal Shyam Walve Siddharth Luthra Sidharth Luthra Simran Mehta Siva Kumar Smita Das Somasekar Sundaresan Somil Agarwal Somnath Ghosh Somnath Shukla Sonil Aggarwal Soumen Adak Soumitra Choudhury Sourabh Bagharia Sridhar Potaraju Srihari Iyer Sriram Seshadri Subash Agarwal Subhas Agarwal Subhash Chhajed Subhash S. Shetty Sudheendra B. R Sudhir Chandra Sudhir Kumar Sudhir Sehgal Sugata Shankar Roy Sujay Kantawala Sujit Ghosh Sukh Sagar Syal Sumit Lalchandani Sumit Mangal Sunil Ganoo Sunil Hirawat Sunil M. Lala Sunil Moti Lala Sunil Pathak Sunil Sethi Sunil T. Vankawala Sunil U Pathak Suraj Jhanwar Suresh K. Gupta Suresh Kumar Susan Linhares Sushant Murthy Sushil Kumar Jain Suyash Agrawal Swapnil Bangur Swapnil Deshmukh Swarn Singh Syed Jameeluddin T P Ostwal T. Banusekar T. J. Pandian T. M. Sreedharan T. N. Seetharaman T. Pappaiah Dharmarajan T. R. Senthil Kumar T. Srinivasa T. Surya Narayana T. Suryanarayana T. V. Subramanya Bhat Tanmany Phadke Tanzil R. Padvekar Tarun Arora Tarun Gulati Tarundeep Singh Tej Mohan Singh Tushar Mehta Tushar P. Hemani U. A. Rana U. Dasgupta Urvashi Dhugga Urvashi Shodhan Usha Dalal Utkarsh Shrivastava Utsav Sahgal V Justin V K Tulsian V. K. Beswal V. L. Jain V. Lakshmikumaran V. P. Gupta V. Prabhakar V. S. Hadade V. S. Rastogi V. Shekhar V. Sridharan V. Srinivasan V.V.S. Rao Vaibhav Pandya Vani H Vartik Choksi Varun Patel Vasanti Patel Ved Jain Vibha Dutta Makhija Vijay Kothari Vijay Mehta Vijay Shah Vijaykumar G Subramanyam Vikas Jain Vikram Nankani Vikramjit Banerjee Vikramjit Banerjee ASG Vimal Desai Vimal Gupta Vimal Punamiya Vimal Punmiya Vinayak Patkar Vinod Kumar Bindal Vipul J Shah Vipul Joshi Viraj Mehta Virendra Ojha Vishal Kalra Vivek Perampurna Vrinda Tulshan Y .K. Kapur Y. K. Sud Y. P. Trivedi Y. Ratnakar Yashank P. Adhyaru Yatish Kumar Laad Yogesh Agrawal Yogesh Thar Zoheb Hossain courts — all — AAR Allahabad High Court Andhra Pradesh High Court AP &amp; T High Court Appellate Tribunal for Benami Transactions Bombay High Court Bombay High Court (Goa Bench) Calcutta High Court CESTAT Chhattisgarh High Court Chief Metropoliton Magistrate CIC Constitution Bench Delhi High Court Gujarat High Court Himachal Pradesh High Court ITAT Agra ITAT Ahmedabad ITAT Amritsar ITAT Bangalore ITAT Chandigarh ITAT Chennai ITAT Cochin ITAT Cuttack ITAT Delhi ITAT Hyderabad ITAT Indore ITAT Jabalpur ITAT Jaipur ITAT Jodhpur ITAT Kolkata ITAT Lucknow ITAT Mumbai ITAT Panaji ITAT Patna ITAT Pune ITAT Raipur ITAT Rajkot ITAT Ranchi ITAT Surat ITAT Vizag J&amp;K High Court Karnataka High Court Kerala High Court Madhya Pradesh High Court Madras High Court Mumbai Mumbai ITAT Mumbai Tribunal NCLT Mumbai Orissa High Court P&amp;H High Court Patna High Court Rajasthan High Court Sessions Court Special Bench Supreme Court Third Member Uttarakhand High Court catchwords — all — +/- 5% adjustment $5 trillion economy 115JB Book Profits 143(1) assessment 234B interest 234C interest 234D interest 244A Interest 35D deduction 40A(2) disallowance 54F deduction 68 80-IA deduction 80HHC export incentives Aadhaar Card abatement of assessment Accomodation Accomodation entries accountability Accounting Standards Accrual Accrual of income Acknowledgement of debt actual cost actual payment additional evidence Additional Ground adjournment adjustment Admission by lawyer whether binding on client admission of appeal admission of undisclosed income advance ruling advance tax adventure in the nature of trade advertisement expenditure Advocates Advocates strike AE Affidavit agent aggregation agricultural income agricultural land AIR information addition allegation Allocation Key allocation of common expenditure ALP alternate claim alternate remedy ALV amalgamation Amazon Web Services (AWS) AMP Expenditure ancestral property annual value anonymous donations AOP APA apparant mistake application of income application of mind application software Appointment appointment of Tribunal Members apportionment of lump-sum consideration appreciation of department approval Arms length price arrest for recovery of arrear demand Assembly vs. Manufacture assessability Assessment associated enterprise attachment order attribution of profits to PE Audit Objection back-dated reasons Bad Debt belonging to Benami Transactions beneficial owner of shares Berry Ratio Best Judgement assessment Bills of Exchange binding effect binding precedent Black Money block assessment Block of Assets bogus accomodation entries bogus accounts bogus capital gains bogus expenditure bogus liability Bogus Loans Bogus purchases Bogus Sales bogus share capital bogus share premium Book Profits books of account borrowed capital BOT Bounced cheque BPO bribe brokerage built-up area business connection business expenditure business income business loss Business profits buy-back tax buyback of shares call option cancellation of registration capacity underutilization capital asset capital employed capital expenditure capital gains Capital receipt capital reduction capital vs. revenue expenditure capital vs. revenue receipt capitation fee carbon credits Carry forward of losses. cash credit cash deposit cash loan cash payments casual casual income CBDT Circular CBDT Circular dated 29.2.2016 CBDT Guidelines for scrutiny of cases CBDT Instructions CCM CCTV Cameras in ITAT CD cenvat credit CENVAT incentive scheme certified copy cessation Change in method of accounting change in shareholding change of address Change of opinion Charitable purpose charity charter hire Chartered Accountant CIT (DR) clarificatory amendment Client Code Modiciation Client Code Modification closing stock closing stock valuation co-op housing society Co-operative Society code of conduct coercive recovery colorable device commercial expediency commission Compact Disc companies Comparables compensation complete scrutiny completed contract composite business compounding fee compounding of offences compulsory acquisition computer software concealment concealment of income concealment Penalty concelment Penalty concession concurrent jurisdiction condonation Condonation of delay confidentiality consent letter consistency principle constitution constitutional validity construction of house constructive delivery consultancy services contempt of court Contractor conversion of company into LLP copyright Corona Virus corporate guarantee Corporate Social Responsibility corruption cost of acquisition Cost Plus Method costs court fee Covid-19 Creation of reserve criminal proceedings cross examination Cross-Objection CSR CUP CUP method Customs Duty Date of initiation of search DCF Valuation DDT dead person debatable issue debenture deductibility deduction Deduction u/s 54EC Deduction under section 10B deduction under section 80P deemed dividend deemed income defective notice deferred revenue expenditure defunct company delay delegation demonetization of currency Departmental Representative Dependent Agent Permanent Establishment deposits for payment of taxes Depreciation derivative contract derivatives derived from the undertaking Developer Development agreement Development Right’s Certificate Dharmada receipts disability disallowance Disallowance u/s 14 &amp; Rule 8D Disallowance u/s 14A &amp; Rule 8D disclose fully and truly all material facts disclosure discount discretionary trust Dissolution Diversion of income by overriding title dividend Dividend Distribution Tax Doctrine of Force Majeure Document domain registration fees Domestic Transfer Pricing donation Double Taxation Draft assessment order DRP Due date DVO's valuation report E-Assessment E-filing of appeals before CIT(A) Education Cess educational institution effectively connected with eligible profits Eligible undertaking email Employees contribution employer-employee relationship enhanced compensation Enhancement enhancement of income entertainment tax subsidy EOU Unit Escapement of Income ESIC ESOP estimate estoppel ethics Euribor Evidence Act ex-parte dismissal excess credit period Excise Duty excise records exempt income exemption existing liability expedited hearing of appeal Expeditious hearing export profits export turnover Extension of stay order extension of time extinguishment of rights extrapolation Failure of natural justice failure to disclose material facts fair market value of shares family arrangement family settlement fee feed for included services Fees for Independent Services fees for professional services Fees for technical services Female finding or direction fine firm fishing and roving inquiry FMV foerign tax foreign agents foreign bank account foreign exchange loss foreign lawyers foreign tax credit forex gain forex loss fraud freebies to doctors Frustration of Contract FSI functional test furnishing inaccurate particulars of income GAAR garnishee notices genuine hardship gift gifts from relatives goodwill Google Adwords GST Act guess work Guidance Note Guidelines head office expenses Hedging loss high-handed high-pitched assessments Hindu Law Hindu Succession Act 1956 Hindul Law HO holding company - subsidiary Housing Project HSBC Black Money HUF Human Probability hypothetical income ICAI ICD ICDS illegal business Impermissible Avoidance Agreement incentive income Income from house property income from other sources income-tax return incriminating material independent application of mind independent personal services India-Canada DTAA India-Cyprus DTAA India-France DTAA India-Germany DTAA India-Japan DTAA India-Korea DTAA India-Mauritius DTAA India-Netherlands DTAA India-Singapore DTAA India-Thailand DTAA India-UAE DTAA India-UK DTAA India-USA DTAA individual infraction of law initial assessment year injury Inland Container Depot (ICD) Inland Port inquiry Installation PE Instruction No. 1914 dated 2.2.1993 Instruction No.3/2003 dated 20.05.2003 insurance companies intangible asset Interest interest on broken period interest on fixed deposit interest on refund interest-free deposit interference with judiciary international transactions interpretation of statutes Intimation intra-group services investment investment in name of spouse (wife) irresponsible conduct irrevocable transfer ITAT Member ITAT Members ITAT recruitment ITES Joint Venture jurisdictional issue Karta keyman insurance KPO Land land acquisition Land Ceiling Act lease finance leasehold land leave encashment legal database legal fees legal representative legal services lessee liability liaison office LIBOR Limit on extent of commercial area of housing project Limitation Act Limitation of Benefits limitation period Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) limited scrutiny live broadcast loan or deposit of money Loans local authority location savings adjustment long-term capital asset Loose papers loss loss return low tax effect circular LTCG maintainability of appeal maintenace of property Maintenance charges make available management services Manger manufacturing process Married Daughters matching concept mens rea mercantile system of accounting Merchant Banker Merger Merilyn Shipping mesne profits method of valuation mineral oil Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) mining services Miscellaneous Application mobilisation fee modvat credit monetary consideration mortgage Most Appropriate Method municipality mushroom mutuality Mutuality - TDR Premium natural justice NAV valuation NDTV Negotiable Instruments Act Net Present Value (NPV) new industrial undertaking new residential house non-compete fee non-discrimination Non-executive directors liability Non-issue of s. 143(2) notice non-occupancy charges non-resident Non-service of s. 143(2) notice non-speaking order not involving the carrying of any activity of profit notification notional interest notional loss NPA NSEL scam NTT null &amp; void omission of provision on money onus operating lease Operating profit operational income opportunity of being heard Order on non-existing person order sheet Other income other place of their work other sources OTSS Owner paid vs payable PAN part performance of contract partners Partnership payment gateway charges payment of SA tax PE PE Fund peak credit penalty penalty for non-complaince with s. 131(1A) summons Penny Stocks percentage completion method Period of Holding - Long Term Capital Asset or Short Term Capital Asset permanent arrangement Permanent Establishment Perquisite Person Personal Ledger Account perverse finding of fact PF philanthropic purposes PIL PLA Plant PLI PMS Portfolio Management Services Power of Attorney Power Of Registrar power to review powers of CIT(A) powers of ITAT premium preponderance of probability presumption presumptive income prima facie adjustment principal-agent relationship principles of natural justice priority hearing priority of dues production sharing contract production vs. manufacturing professional expenditure professional misconduct profit motive Profit on sale of shares Profit Split Method promissory estoppel propriety prosecution protective assessment provision for bad debts provisional attachment proviso to Section 147 public interest purchase RBI Approval real income theory reason to believe reasonable cause reasons Reassessment recall of order Recovery of tax rectification of mistake redemption of preference shares redevelopment of property reduction of capital Reference Reference to TPO refund Refund of penalty registered shareholder registration reimbursement of actual cost Reimbursement of expenses Rejection of books of account rejection of books of accounts on arbitrary basis Related Party Transactions (RPTs) remand remission rent Rent for use of terrace rental income Reopening Reopening of assessment repairs repeal of a statute representative assessee res judicata Resale Price Method residential house restitution Retirement retraction Retrospective amendment retrospective operation Return of Income revenue recognition revised return Revision Revision u/s 263 revocable transfer Right to Information Act 2005 right to sue rights in a property risk adjustment royalty RPM RTI Act S. 43B deduction s. 50C s. 80(3) of Companies Act 1956 safe harbour rules salaries salary sales-tax sales-tax remission sales-tax tribunal sanction SARFAESI Act satellite satisfaction scam scientific research scope of appeal Scope of scrutiny scrap sales sear search and seizure Search assessment Secondment agreement Section 153A- Search and Seizure section 254(2) Section 68 cash credit Securities Transaction Tax securitization of lease receivables seized cash self assessment tax Service service by affixture service charges service of notice Service PE service-tax set-off of loss setting up of business Settlement Commission sexual harassment sham transactions share application money share capital share premium shares sharing of profit shell company shipping income short-term capital gains Sikkim Lottery situs of intangible property Slot Charters SLP slump sale Small scale industrial undertaking software licensing sogo shosha source of income Special Audit Special Bench Special Leave Petition Specific trust Specified Domestic Transactions speculative loss stamp duty valuation start up costs statement on oath Static vs. Ambulatory interpretation of DTAAs stay of assessment proceedings stay of demand stay of judgement stay of penalty proceedings stay of prosection proceedings sticky advances Stock Appreciation Rights Stock Exchange Card stock options stock-in-trade STPI strategic investment strict construction strictures subsidy substantial expansion substantial question of law subvention successor sufficient cause supporting manufacturer supression of sales surplus surrender survey system software tax tax audit tax avoidance Tax Credit tax evasion tax planning tax rate Tax Recovery Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) Taxability Taxation of foreign branches TCS default TDR TDS TDS credit TDS deduction TDS default TDS disallowance TDS reconciliation technical knowhow technosavvy terrace Third Member tips TNMM Toll Road Tonnage Tax Scheme total turnover TP Adjustment only on AE transactions transfer transfer fees transfer of case transfer of preference shares to equity shares Transfer Pricing Transfer Pricing investment in share capital of wholly owned subsidiary Transferable Development Right transmission fees transperent entities treaty override turnover Turnover Filter ultra vires unaccounted income unclaimed liabilities undertaking underutilization of capacity undervaluation undisclosed assessment Undisclosed Income undivided share of co-owner unexplained cash credit unexplained expenditure unexplained gifts unexplained income unexplained investment unlawful expenditure Unpaid Service Tax usance charges use of asset vacancy allowance vakalatnama valuation of property valuation of shares valuation of stock-in-trade VAT Tribunal verification vested right video conferencing Vivad se Vishwas Void waiver of income waiver of loan wealth-tax web hosting charges whatsapp withdrawal of appeal working capital adjustment Works Contract Writ jurisdiction Writ Petition write-off of debts wrong claim vs. false claim year of taxability genre — all — domes Domestic Tax International Tax Other Laws Transfer Pricing Reset (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Recent Posts Tata Communications Ltd vs. UOI (Bombay High Court) Teleperformance Global Services Private Limited vs. ACIT (Bombay High Court) DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad) Maria Fernandes Cheryl vs. ITO (ITAT Mumbai) Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Limited vs. Bishal Jaiswal (Supreme Court) Recent CommentsSamir Bhuptani on CIT vs. D. K. Garg (Delhi High Court)Article on ADIT vs. E-Funds IT Solution Inc (Supreme Court)Sejal on Maria Fernandes Cheryl vs. ITO (ITAT Mumbai)Sejal on DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad)Sejal on DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad)Archives April 2021 (8) March 2021 (8) January 2021 (9) December 2020 (4) November 2020 (2) October 2020 (2) September 2020 (3) August 2020 (5) July 2020 (9) June 2020 (12) May 2020 (9) April 2020 (9) March 2020 (16) February 2020 (19) January 2020 (10) December 2019 (10) November 2019 (13) October 2019 (22) September 2019 (11) August 2019 (16) July 2019 (15) June 2019 (18) May 2019 (9) April 2019 (31) March 2019 (21) February 2019 (20) January 2019 (12) December 2018 (24) November 2018 (25) October 2018 (27) September 2018 (28) August 2018 (36) July 2018 (29) June 2018 (27) May 2018 (25) April 2018 (27) March 2018 (28) February 2018 (12) January 2018 (22) December 2017 (24) November 2017 (18) October 2017 (16) September 2017 (30) August 2017 (18) July 2017 (22) June 2017 (18) May 2017 (29) April 2017 (21) March 2017 (20) February 2017 (16) January 2017 (32) December 2016 (24) November 2016 (15) October 2016 (15) September 2016 (21) August 2016 (25) July 2016 (15) June 2016 (13) May 2016 (37) April 2016 (45) March 2016 (36) February 2016 (30) January 2016 (20) December 2015 (11) November 2015 (37) October 2015 (31) September 2015 (27) August 2015 (35) July 2015 (43) June 2015 (29) May 2015 (28) April 2015 (29) March 2015 (43) February 2015 (30) January 2015 (38) December 2014 (43) November 2014 (58) October 2014 (93) September 2014 (14) August 2014 (22) July 2014 (24) June 2014 (24) May 2014 (19) April 2014 (20) March 2014 (12) February 2014 (40) January 2014 (17) December 2013 (20) November 2013 (15) October 2013 (12) September 2013 (13) August 2013 (13) July 2013 (10) June 2013 (12) May 2013 (24) April 2013 (27) March 2013 (13) February 2013 (15) January 2013 (16) December 2012 (17) November 2012 (13) October 2012 (14) September 2012 (27) August 2012 (33) July 2012 (21) June 2012 (17) May 2012 (29) April 2012 (35) March 2012 (31) February 2012 (24) January 2012 (22) December 2011 (19) November 2011 (25) October 2011 (13) September 2011 (17) August 2011 (13) July 2011 (21) June 2011 (22) May 2011 (19) April 2011 (23) March 2011 (28) February 2011 (23) January 2011 (21) December 2010 (23) November 2010 (12) October 2010 (17) September 2010 (10) August 2010 (11) July 2010 (14) June 2010 (10) May 2010 (16) April 2010 (8) March 2010 (11) February 2010 (11) January 2010 (12) December 2009 (14) November 2009 (12) October 2009 (9) September 2009 (11) August 2009 (14) July 2009 (13) June 2009 (2) May 2009 (7) April 2009 (10) March 2009 (14) February 2009 (11) January 2009 (17) December 2008 (12) November 2008 (11) October 2008 (13) September 2008 (22) August 2008 (19) July 2008 (9) June 2008 (4) May 2008 (9) April 2008 (12) March 2008 (9) February 2008 (19) January 2008 (13)