Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/40 Date: June 14, 2023 The Company Secretary All Listed Entities Subject: Seeking of comments / feedback on the XBRL being introduced for submission of Announcements pertaining to Loss of Share Certificate/ Issue of Duplicate Share Certificate and Closure of Trading Window 1. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this document is to seek comments / feedback on the proposal to migrate from Portable Document Format (PDF) to eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) format for submitting corporate announcements for  Loss of Share Certificate/ Issue of Duplicate Share Certificate  Closure of Trading Window as required under the provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI LODR) and/ or SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI PIT), as amended from time to time and such applicable laws. 2. BACKGROUND: Listed entities are required to file the disclosures with the Stock Exchange(s) within prescribed timelines as laid down in SEBI LODR and/or SEBI PIT Regulations and accordingly it was mandated to report XBRL based filings for financials from year 2015 onwards. Over the period, Stock Exchanges in phased manner has been aiming to convert filings made under SEBI LODR and/or any other disclosure w.r.t. compliance of any SEBI Act, Regulation, Circular or provision from PDF to XBRL. With an objective to standardise securities market data it was deliberated that XBRL would be implemented for all corporate filings. Accordingly, Stock Exchanges have implemented XBRL based compliance filing mechanism featuring identical and homogenous compliance data structures which will not only ease the compliance burden on listed entities but also will enable analysis on the data submitted by the listed entities. Hence in this regard, filing of announcement pertaining to the aforementioned subjects, would require listed entities to file the same in XBRL exclusively, formats of which are made available as Annexure. 3. ISSUES AND DELIBERATIONS: Please note that the details required are typically descriptive in nature and based on the SEBI LODR and/ or SEBI PIT Regulations or any other disclosure w.r.t. compliance of any SEBI Act, Regulation, Circular or provision. Accordingly, listed entities can provide their comments/ feedback/suggestions/observations pertaining to any additions/modifications in the fields of the attached format. 4. COMMENTS FROM LISTED ENTITIES Considering the implications of the XBRL filing by listed entities, comments in respect of the subject are solicited. Comments may be sent by email to DL-Announcement@nse.co.in in the following format: Name of entity / person: Contact Number & Email Address: Sr. No Event: 1. Loss of Share Certificate/ Issue of Duplicate Share Certificate 2. Closure of Trading Window Subject/Heading/ Field Comments/ Suggestions Detailed Rationale While sending email, kindly mention the subject as “Comments / Feedback on the XBRL being introduced for Loss of Share Certificate/ Issue of Duplicate Share Certificate and Closure of Trading Window” The comments may be sent by email to DL-Announcement@nse.co.in latest by June 20, 2023. Enclosed is the draft format for the XBRL being introduced. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Dhaval Shah Manager – Listing Encl: Draft Format for XBRL being introduced for Loss of Share Certificate/ Issue of Duplicate Share Certificate and Closure of Trading Window ANNEXURE 1. LOSS OF SHARE CERTIFICATE/ ISSUE OF DUPLICATE SHARE CERTIFICATES Loss of share certificate Number of shareholders for whom intimation regarding loss of share certificate has been received 1. Add row 2. Delete row LOSS OF SHARE CERTIFICATE/ ISSUE OF DUPLICATE SHARE CERTIFICATES PARTICULARS SUB-PARTICULARS General Information NSE Symbol Name of the Company BSE Scrip Code MSE Symbol ISIN Type of Announcement 1. New 2. Revision Type of Event 1. Loss of share certificates 2. Issue of duplicate share certificates 3. Others If Others, specify the type of Event Date of original announcement Remarks (website dissemination) Remarks for Exchange (not for Website Dissemination) Date of Report Sr. no. Date of receipt of intimation/information of loss of share certificate Name of shareholder(s) (including Joint holders) Folio Number Number of shares Certificate Number Distinctive Number Whether multiple entries is to be created for a single shareholder Number of entries to be created for a particular shareholder From To From To Name of Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA) of the Company If Others, specify the name of the RTA Whether the Company has complied with the Rule 19(3) of Securities Contract (Regulations) Rules, 1957 for the loss of share certificates If no, specify the reason Whether the Company has complied with the Regulation 39(2) of SEBI LODR for the timelines of 30 days from the date of lodgement If no, specify the reason Whether the Company has complied with the procedural requirements specified in Schedule VI of SEBI LODR If no, specify the reason Any other disclosure w.r.t. compliance of any SEBI Act, Regulation, Circular or provision Any other information Remarks (website dissemination) Remarks for exchange (not for website dissemination) Issue of duplicate share certificate Number of shareholders to whom duplicate share certificate has been issued 1. Add row 2. Delete row Sr. no. Date of receipt of information for issue of duplicate share certificate Name of shareholder(s) (including Joint holders) Folio Number Number of Shares Old Certificate Number New Certificate Number Distinctive Number Reason for issue of duplicate share certificate Whether multiple entries is to be created for a single shareholder Number of entries to be created for a particular shareholder From To From To From To Name of Registrar and Transfer Agent of the Company If Others, specify the name of the RTA Whether the Company has complied with the Rule 19(3) of Securities Contract (Regulations) Rules, 1957 for the loss of share certificates If no, specify the reason Whether the Company has complied with the Regulation 39(2) of SEBI LODR for the timelines of 30 days from the date of lodgement If no, specify the reason Whether the Company has complied with the procedural requirements specified in Schedule VI of SEBI LODR If no, specify the reason Any other disclosure w.r.t. compliance of any SEBI Act, Regulation, Circular or provision Any other information Remarks (website dissemination) Remarks for exchange (not for website dissemination) 2. CLOSURE OF TRADING WINDOW CLOSURE OF TRADING WINDOW PARTICULARS SUB-PARTICULARS NSE Symbol Name of the Company BSE Scrip Code MSE Symbol ISIN Type of Announcement 1. New 2. Revision Type of Event Closure of Trading Window Date of original announcement Trading Window Start date Trading Window End date Details for Trading Window End date Purpose of the Closure of Trading Window Any other disclosure w.r.t. compliance of any SEBI Act, Regulation, Circular or provision Any other information Remarks (website dissemination) Remarks for Exchange (not for Website Dissemination) Date of Report