1 | 2025 Inspection Raul Carrega, CPA (Headquartered in Newport Beach, California) June 11, 2026 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2026-066 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2025 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2025 Inspection and Historical Data by Inspection Year ................................... 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ........................... 8 Part I.C: Independence.................................................................................................................. 9 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control ........................................................................ 11 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | 2 2025 INSPECTION In the 2025 inspection of Raul Carrega, CPA, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of issuers. We selected for review one audit of an issuer with a fiscal year ending in 2023. For the issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2025 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not necessarily constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work or of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on thescope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2025 INSPECTION AND HISTORICAL DATA BY INSPECTION YEAR The following information provides an overview of our 2025 inspection as well as data from the previous inspection. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 20252023 Firm data Total issuer audit clients in which the firm was the lead/principal auditor 1 1 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 1 1 1 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed1 1 Audits in which the firm was the lead/principal auditor 1 1 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) 0 0 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies1 1 Percentage of audits with Part I.A deficiencies 100% 100% If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In certain cases, the firm may have performed remedial actions after the deficiency was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing additional audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR, or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. 1 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement) during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspectionor, in cases where the firm has not issued an audit report in that period, since the prior inspection or since the firm’s registration with the PCAOB. Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | 4 Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — it does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2025 inspection and the previous inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2025 2023 Audit area Audits reviewedAudit areaAudits reviewed Revenue and related accounts 1 Revenue and related accounts 1 Debt 1 Debt 1 Derivatives 1 Derivatives 1 Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. Part I.B discusses certain deficiencies, if any, that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of apparent non-compliance with rules related to maintaining independence. Part I.C discusses instances of apparent non-compliance with rules related to maintaining independence. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | 6 Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work supporting the firm’s opinion on the issuer’s financial statements. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A) and industry sector. Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies, taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR None Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer A – Industrials Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue, Convertible Debt and Warrants,and Derivative Liabilities. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: To test revenue, the firm selected revenue transactions that exceeded a monetary threshold. The following deficiencies were identified: Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | 7 For the selected transactions, the firm did not perform any substantive procedures to test whether the issuer’s performance obligations had been satisfied when revenue was recognized. (AS 2301.08 and .13) The firm did not perform any procedures to test the remaining revenue transactions to address the assessed risk of material misstatement. (AS 1105.27; AS 2301.08 and .13) With respect to Convertible Debt and Warrants, for which the firm identified a significant risk: The issuer issued convertible debt and related warrants during the current and prior years. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not perform any procedures to evaluate the issuer’s classification of and accounting for (1) warrants and (2) embedded conversion options associated with certain convertible debt. (AS 2301.08 and .11) The firm did not perform any procedures to test the intrinsic value of the beneficial conversion feature associated with certain convertible debt at the date of issuance. (AS 2301.08 and .11) To test convertible debt, the firm’s substantive procedures included sending positive confirmation requests. The following deficiencies were identified: The issuer sent the confirmation requests on behalf of the firm. The firm did not maintain control of the confirmation requests through direct communication with the intended recipients of the confirmation requests. (AS 2310.28) The firm received electronic responses to certain confirmation requests. The firm did not consider performing procedures to address the risks associated with electronic responses, such as verifying the source and contents of the confirmation responses. (AS 2310.29) For certain confirmation requests for which it did not receive a response, the firm did not perform alternative procedures. (AS 2310.31) With respect to Derivative Liabilities, for which the firm identified a significant risk: The firm did not perform any procedures to test the valuation of derivative liabilities. (AS 2501.07) The firm did not identify and evaluate a GAAP departure related to errors in and omissions from the issuer’s derivative liabilities disclosures required under FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. (AS 2810.30 and .31) Audits with a Single Deficiency None Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | 8 PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES This section of our report discusses certain deficiencies that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion. This section does not discuss instances of apparent non-compliance with rules related to maintaining independence. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. In some cases, we assess the firm’s compliance with specific PCAOB standards or rules on other audits that were not reviewed and include any instances of non-compliance below. The deficiencies below are presented in numerical order based on the PCAOB standard or rule with which the firm did not comply. We identified the following deficiencies: In the audit reviewed, the work papers did not contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection with the engagement, to understand all of the procedures performed by the engagement quality reviewer, including the procedures that the engagement quality reviewer performed to evaluate the engagement team’s responses to the significant risks identified. In this instance, the documentation of the engagement quality review was non-compliant with AS 1220, Engagement Quality Review. In the audit reviewed, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to (1) the significant risks identified through its risk assessment procedures; (2) the firm’s evaluation of the issuer’s ability to continue as a going concern; and (3) an overview of the overall audit strategy. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In the audit reviewed, the firm did not include a required matter related to its responsibilities in the engagement letter. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In the audit reviewed, the firm, when testing journal entries for evidence of possible material misstatement due to fraud, did not appropriately consider the characteristics of potentially fraudulent journal entries in determining the criteria it used to identify and select journal entries for testing. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2401, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. In the audit reviewed, the engagement team performed procedures to determine whether or not matters were critical audit matters but, in performing those procedures, did not include certain matters that were communicated, or required to be communicated, to the audit committee and that related to accounts or disclosures that were material to the financial statements. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. This instance of non-compliance does not necessarily mean that other critical audit matters should have been communicated in the auditor’s report. Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | 9 In the audit reviewed, the firm’s communication of a critical audit matter in the audit report included a description of certain audit procedures that the firm did not perform. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. In the audit reviewed, the firm did not file its report on Form AP by the relevant deadline. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. In the audit reviewed, the firm did not provide the audit committee the required independence communications. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3526, Communication with Audit Committees Concerning Independence. PART I.C: INDEPENDENCE PCAOB Rule 3520, Auditor Independence, requires a firm and its personnel to be independent of the firm’s audit clients. This requirement encompasses not only an obligation to satisfy the independence criteria set out in PCAOB rules and standards but also an obligation to satisfy all other independence criteria applicable to an engagement, including the independence criteria set out by the SEC in Regulation S-X, 17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01, Qualifications of Accountants (“Rule 2-01”). This section of our report discusses identified instances of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520. An instance of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520 does not necessarily mean that the Board has concluded the firm was not objective and impartial throughout the audit and professional engagement period. Although this section includes an instance of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520 that we identified, there may be other instances of non-compliance with rules related to independence that were not identified through our procedures or the firm’s monitoring activities. PCAOB-Identified We identified the following instance of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520: Under Rule 2-01(c)(7), an accountant is not independent if it is engaged to render audit or non-audit services to an issuer or its subsidiaries without that engagement having been pre-approved by the audit committee. In the audit reviewed, we identified one instance for one issuer in which the firm could provide no persuasive evidence of the necessary audit committee pre-approval of the audit engagement, including quarterly reviews. Firm-Identified The firm did not bring to our attention any instances of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520. While the firm did not bring to our attention any instances of apparent non-compliance with PCAOB Rule 3520, the number, large or small, of firm-identified instances of apparent non-compliance may be Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | 10 reflective of the size of the firm, including the number of associated firms; the design and effectiveness of the firm’s independence monitoring activities; and the size and/or complexity of the issuers it audits, including the number of affiliates of those issuers. Therefore, we caution against making any comparison of firm-identified instances of apparent non-compliance across firms. Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | 11 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. Raul Carrega, CPA, PCAOB Release No. 104-2026-066, June 11, 2026 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the Board provided the firm an opportunity to review and comment on a draft of this report. The firm did not provide a written response. A-1 |