Proposal No Comment Rationale Level of Agreement Rationale for rejection 2 Identification of SWAGT-FIs – requirement for validation of SWAGAT-FI status for existing FPIs will increase burden on investors and lead to operational inconvenience. Request to relook at the proposal regarding providing proof. FPIs will need to prove diversification, independen ce of fund managers, regulator confirmation, blind pool, absen ce of segregated portfolios, which are burdensome and wil l increase paperwork. Existing subcategory framework should be applied instead of the FPIs having to pro vide additional documents to meet the specified criteria . Disagree To reduce operational burden, the verification requirements shall be on similar lines to the existing exemption criteria under Additional Disclosure Framework, which has already been implemented by the industry. 4 No the periodicity of re-KYC should be maintained as at present. The periodicity of payment is also to be maintained as is currently practiced. The need to do a re-KYC is to be maintained for FPI s similar to other types of investors. Any material change e. g. UBO, if not reported on time will be found while conduct ing the re- KYC. The payment of yearly fees should be maintained as at the current periodicity or manner of payment. The propo sal to get payments at say a period of every 10 years woul d restrict the ability of SEBI to increase or decrease the yea rly fees. In view of retaining flexibility of being able to m anage the yearly fees far more easily it is suggested that th e current system is to be maintained. Disagree Requirements regarding material change shall continue. Proposal for removal of additional re-KYC requirement was made on the basis of a risk vs convenience assessment. There is no yearly fee requirement even today. Only the block period for fee is being increased from 3 years to 10 years, to coincide with the re-KYC requirement. 6 Many commenters were of the opinion to not facilitate single demat account for different modes of foreign investment. Foreign investors generally rely on custodian repor ts rather than depository statements for tracking and reconci ling their holdings. While consolidated custodian reports can be used for an overall view, FPI and FVCI holdings must be distinctly identifiable as required by RBI NDI Rules. A single demat account combining both routes prevent issuers and regulators from distinguishing between FPI and FVCI investments, leading to monitoring and compliance challenges. Recording unlisted FVCI investments in an FPI- tagged account would also create regulatory and rep orting issues. Maintaining separate demat accounts ensures accurate record-keeping, prevents co-mingling of se curities, facilitates data retrieval, and preserves confident iality— whereas a single account complicates segregation, s lows data collection, and increases compliance risks. Disagree Single demat account is proposed on optional basis, so investors can choose as per their convenience. Requisite clarification on operational matters shall be provided under the respective notification or Standard Operating Procedure to be issued for implementation of SWAGAT-FI framework.