Chief Auditor Barbara Vanich to Depart the PCAOB WASHINGTON, Jun. 26, 2026 The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) today announced that Chief Auditor Barbara Vanich will leave the PCAOB on July 15, 2026, after more than 17 years of service. “I have greatly valued Barb’s expert advice – her accomplishments at the PCAOB have been extraordinary,” said PCAOB Chairman Demetrios (Jim) Logothetis. “We thank her for her leadership and dedication, and we wish her well as she embarks on a new professional opportunity.” Ms. Vanich joined the PCAOB in February 2009. After serving in several roles at the PCAOB – including Associate Chief Auditor, Special Adviser to a Board Member, Deputy Chief Auditor, and Acting Chief Auditor – she was named Chief Auditor in October 2022. During her tenure as Chief Auditor, the PCAOB adopted several new standards that represented important milestones in the PCAOB’s work to improve audit quality and protect investors. Most notably, the PCAOB in May 2024 adopted QC 1000, A Firm’s System of Quality Control. The standard, which will become effective December 15, 2026, features a risk-based approach designed to drive continuous improvement in audit quality. Additionally, Ms. Vanich oversaw the development of other major standard-setting projects, the creation of resources to help audit firms with implementation of new standards, the launch of the PCAOB’s Audit Practitioner Fellowship Program, the PCAOB’s first-ever request for comment on potential future areas of focus for standard setting, and the creation of a Firm Consultation Process through which registered public accounting firms can submit standards-related questions directly to PCAOB staff and receive informal staff views. “It has been an honor to advance the PCAOB’s investor-protection mission, together with my talented colleagues in the Office of the Chief Auditor and so many others across the PCAOB,” said Ms. Vanich. The PCAOB is beginning a search to fill the Chief Auditor role and will solicit applications from qualified candidates soon. *****About the PCAOBThe PCAOB is a nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee the audits of public companies in order to protect investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. The PCAOB also oversees the audits of brokers and dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including compliance reports filed pursuant to federal securities laws. Related Topics About the PCAOB