1 | 2023 Inspection KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada (Headquartered in Santiago, Chile) October 24, 2024 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2024-169 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2023 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2023 Inspection and Historical Data by Inspection Year ................................... 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ........................... 8 Part I.C: Independence.................................................................................................................. 9 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control ........................................................................ 10 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | 2 2023 INSPECTION In the 2023 inspection of KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada (formerly KPMG Auditores Consultores SpA.), the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of public companies. We selected for review three audits of issuers with fiscal years ending in 2022. For each issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2023 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not necessarily constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work or of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on thescope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2023 INSPECTION AND HISTORICAL DATA BY INSPECTION YEAR The following information provides an overview of our 2023 inspection as well as data from the previous inspection. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 20232020 Firm data Total issuer audit clients in which the firm was the principal auditor 1 1 Total issuer audits in which the firm was not the principal auditor 6 6 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 1 4 4 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed 2 3 3 Audits in which the firm was the principal auditor 1 1 Audits in which the firm was not the principal auditor2 2 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) 3 3 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies3 0 Percentage of audits with Part I.A deficiencies 100% 0% 1 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement) or for the firm’s role in an issuer audit during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspection. 2 The population from which audits are selected for review includes both audits for which the firm was the principal auditor and those where the firm was not the principal auditor but played a role in the audit. KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | 4 If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In many cases, the firm has performed remedial actions after the deficiency was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing additional audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR, or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — it does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2023 inspection and the previous inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2023 2020 Audit area Audits reviewedAudit areaAudits reviewed Revenue and related accounts 3 Revenue and related accounts 3 Long-lived assets 2 Long-lived assets 2 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Goodwill and intangible assets 1 Inventory 1 Expenses 1 KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, (1) at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR or (2) in audit(s) in which it was not the principal auditor, had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to fulfill the objectives of its role in the audit. Part I.B discusses certain deficiencies, if any, that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) or fulfill the objectives of its role in the audit(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. Part I.C discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules, if any, related to maintaining independence. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | 6 Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work (1) supporting the firm’s opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR and (2) in audit(s) in which it was not the principal auditor, to fulfill the objectives of its role in the audit. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A). Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies, taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR None Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer A – Utilities Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement and ICFR audits related to Revenue and Related Accounts. Description of the deficiencies identified The issuer recognized revenue as services were provided and accrued revenue and recorded accounts receivable for services provided but not yet billed. The firm identified an elevated inherent risk related to certain revenue that was recognized over time. The following deficiencies were identified: KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | 7 The firm selected for testing controls over certain revenue and accounts receivable and tested the controls through the second quarter of the year under audit. The firm did not perform procedures to update the results of its testing from this interim date to year end beyond inquiry of management. (AS 2201.55) The sample sizes the firm used in certain of its substantive procedures to test revenue and accounts receivable were too small to provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence because these procedures were designed based on a level of control reliance that was not supported due to the deficiencies in the firm’s control testing discussed above. (AS 2301.16, .18, and .37; AS 2315.19, .23, and .23A) The firm did not perform procedures to test, or test any controls over, the accuracy and completeness of certain issuer-produced system generated information it used to test unbilled revenue and accounts receivable. (AS 1105.10) Audits with a Single Deficiency Issuer B Type of audit and related area affected In our review of an audit in which the firm played a role but was not the principal auditor, we identified a deficiency in connection with the firm’s role in the financial statement audit related to Revenue. Description of the deficiency identified For certain services, the issuer offered discounts, rebates, and other concessions (collectively “price adjustments”) to customers and recognized revenue based on the gross invoiced price less any applicable price adjustments. To test revenue recognized from these services, the firm selected a sample of customer invoices and agreed the net invoiced amounts to cash collections. The firm did not perform any substantive procedures to test the accuracy of the gross invoiced prices and applicable price adjustments. (AS 2301.08) Issuer C – Industrials Type of audit and related area affected In our review of an audit in which the firm played a role but was not the principal auditor, we identified a deficiency in connection with the firm’s role in the financial statement audit related to Journal Entries, for which the firm identified a fraud risk. This was the firm’s initial audit of this issuer. Description of the deficiency identified The firm was instructed by the principal auditor to perform procedures to test journal entries and other adjustments to address the risk of management override of controls around the financial reporting processes at the group level. The firm identified fraud criteria to identify and select journal entries for KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | 8 testing and communicated the criteria to the principal auditor. The firm did not perform procedures to identify and test journal entries that met one of the criteria. (AS 2401.61) PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES This section of our report discusses certain deficiencies that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) or fulfill the objectives of its role in the audit(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. As a result, the areas below were not necessarily reviewed on every audit. In some cases, we assess the firm’s compliance with specific PCAOB standards or rules on other audits that were not reviewed and include any instances of non- compliance below. The deficiencies below are presented in numerical order based on the PCAOB standard or rule with which the firm did not comply. We identified the following deficiencies: In one of two audits reviewed, the firm did not exercise due professional care when planning and performing the audit because it did not perform procedures to determine whether all individuals who participated in the audit were in compliance with independence requirements. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1015, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work. In one audit reviewed, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to the name, location, and planned responsibilities of an other accounting firm and other persons not employed by the firm that performed audit procedures in the audit. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees.  In one audit reviewed, the firm did not perform procedures to determine whether all individuals who participated in the audit were in compliance with independence requirements. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2101, Audit Planning. In two of three audits reviewed, the firm did not inquire of certain management about the risks of material misstatement, including fraud risks. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In one audit reviewed, the firm’s report on Form AP omitted information related to the participation in the audit by an other accounting firm. In this instance, the firm was non- compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | 9 PART I.C: INDEPENDENCE This section of our report discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. An instance of potential non- compliance with SEC rules or an instance of non-compliance with PCAOB rules does not necessarily mean that the Board has concluded the firm was not objective and impartial throughout the audit and professional engagement period. Although this section includes instances of potential non-compliance that we identified, there may be other instances of non-compliance with SEC or PCAOB rules related to independence that were not identified through our procedures or the firm’s monitoring activities. PCAOB-Identified We identified the following instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non- compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence: Commencing an audit when there are unpaid prior-year audit or other professional fees is generally inconsistent with the general standard of independence set out in Rule 2-01(b) of Regulation S-X and impairs the accountant’s independence with respect to an audit client. In three audits reviewed, we identified one instance for one issuer in which this circumstance appears to have occurred. Under Rule 2-01(c)(1) of Regulation S-X, certain financial relationships impair an accountant’s independence. In three audits reviewed, we identified one instance for one issuer where the spouse of a member of an engagement team had a financial relationship, other than an investment in an audit client, in which this circumstance appears to have occurred. Firm-Identified The firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. While the firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance, the number, large or small, of firm-identified instances of potential non-compliance may be reflective of the size of the firm, including the number of associated firms; the design and effectiveness of the firm’s independence monitoring activities; and the size and/or complexity of the issuers it audits, including the number of affiliates of those issuers. Therefore, we caution against making any comparison of firm- identified instances of potential non-compliance across firms. KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | 10 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the firm provided a written response to a draft of this report. Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 4007(b), the firm’s response, excluding any portion granted confidential treatment, is attached hereto and made part of this final inspection report. The Board does not make public any of a firm’s comments that address a nonpublic portion of the report unless a firm specifically requests otherwise. In some cases, the result may be that none of a firm’s response is made publicly available. In addition, pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(b), if a firm requests, and the Board grants, confidential treatment for any of the firm’s comments on a draft report, the Board does not include those comments in the final report. The Board routinely grants confidential treatment, if requested, for any portion of a firm’s response that addresses any point in the draft that the Board omits from, or any inaccurate statement in the draft that the Board corrects in, the final report. KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-169, October 24, 2024 | A-2 A-1 |