National Stock Exchange of India Circular Department: LISTING Circular Ref. No.: NSE/CML/2026/02 Date: February 03, 2026 To, The Company Secretary, All Listed Entities Subject: Seeking of comments / feedback on the XBRL being introduced for filing Qualified Institutional Placements (“QIP”) applications with the Exchange. 1. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this document is to seek comments / feedback on the proposed transition to an XBRL- based framework for filing QIP applications, in lieu of the existing filings which are made through an application-based system, wherein companies manually input the required information and upload documents in PDF format. 2. BACKGROUND: Listed entities are required to seek approval from the Stock Exchange(s) for issuance of securities through “QIP” as laid down in SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015 and SEBI ICDR Regulation 2018 and various applicable relevant provisions, circulars, guidance note, etc. as amended from time to time. . Accordingly, companies are required to submit applications for in-principle approval, post-allotment approval, and trading approval to the Stock Exchange(s). Over a period of time, Stock Exchanges, in a phased manner, have undertaken initiatives to migrate filings made under the SEBI Act, Regulations and circulars from document-based formats to XBRL- based reporting, with an objective to standardize securities market data and enhance regulatory efficiency. It has been deliberated that implementation of an XBRL-based filing mechanism for QIP applications covering “In-Principle approval and Post-Allotment Listing Approval” which would enable submission of standardised, consistent, and homogeneous compliance data to ease the filing process for listed entities as well as facilitate efficient data analysis and monitoring by the Stock Exchange. Accordingly, in this regard, filing of QIP-related information would require listed entities to file the aforesaid applications in XBRL exclusively, formats of which are made available as Annexure A. 3. ISSUES AND DELIBERATIONS: Please note that the details required are typically descriptive in nature and based on the SEBI Regulation or any other disclosure w.r.t. compliance of any SEBI Act, Regulation, Circular or provision. Accordingly, listed entities can provide their comments/ feedback/suggestions/observations pertaining to any additions/modifications in the fields of the attached format. Continuation Sheet 4. COMMENTS FROM LISTED ENTITIES: Considering the implications of the XBRL filing by listed entities, comments in respect of the subject are solicited. Comments may be sent by email to DL-FI@nse.co.in in the following format latest by February 11, 2026. Name of entity / person: Contact Number & Email Address: Sr No Event: XBRL filing for QIP Subject/Heading/ Field Comments/ Suggestions Detailed Rationale While sending email, kindly mention the subject as “Comments / Feedback on the XBRL being introduced QIP applications with the Exchange.” Enclosed is the draft format for the XBRL being introduced. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Dipti Chinchkhede Senior Manager – Listing Approvals Encl: Format for XBRL being introduced for QIP. Annexure A Qualified Institutions Placement XBRL for Regulation 28(1) - In Principle Approval (Pre Allotment) Part I - Issue details Field Input type Values Mandatory/Non-Mandatory Symbol BSE Code MSEI Symbol Listed At Checkbox NSE/BSE/MSEI/Others(specify) Issuer should specify which exchange if selecting others. Only in case Company's Board is Main Board will this field be shown. Board resolution approving the issue of specified securities Date Calendar Mandatory Date of Notice to Shareholders Date Calendar Mandatory Date of Shareholders approval for QIBs Date Calendar Mandatory Type of Security Dropdown Equity, Non-Convertible Debt and Warrants, Convertible Securities, Units Mandatory No. of _____ Integer Either amount or issue size shall be mandatory These fields will show up for each type of security the user will input. Refer to #Note below. Amount (INR in Crores) Integer Lead Manager Dropdown List provided Mandatory Objects of the Issue Dropdown Refer to table 1 below for values## Mandatory #Note: For no. of securities refer to type of security selected by company from the dropdown. If type of security is Equity, there will be 1 row: No. of Equity Securities If type of security is Non-Convertible Debt and Warrants, there will be 2 rows: 1. No. of Non-Convertible Debt Securities 2. No. of Warrants If type of security is Convertible Securities, there will be 1 row: No. of Convertible Securities If type of security is Units, there will be 1 row: No. of Units Table - 1: Dropdown for Objects of the Issue## Object Amount (INR in Crores) Remarks Capital Expenditure Repayment of Loan Conversion of loan Working Capital Requirement Acquisition of the entity Unidentified Acquisition Investment in Subsidiary/ Associates/Others Augmentation of capital base of the company Research and Development General Corporate Purpose Others Total Part II - Confirmation In connection with QIP application for in-principle approval, we hereby confirm and certify that: Sr. No. Particulars Yes/No/NA Remarks 1 The issue will be in compliance with the Chapter VI of SEBI (Issue of Capital & Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2018. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 2 The company, its whole-time directors, person(s) responsible for ensuring compliance with the securities laws, its promoters and the companies which are promoted by any of them are not in violation of the provisions of Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 3 The new shares to be issued will rank pari-passu with existing equity shares in every respect including dividend. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 4 Further, in case of any non-compliance, the Company is also liable to pay fine/penalty and any action as per SEBI Standard Operating Procedure. If No/NA - remark is not mandatory 5 Issuer has been listed for more than 1 year on the stock exchange. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 6 In case the post-listing paid-up capital of the company, exceeds INR 25 crores, the Company confirms that they will comply with the provisions of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, and amendment thereof as applicable. Only for SME If No/NA - remark is mandatory 7 In case of issuance of non-convertible debt instruments along with warrants, the issue will be in compliance with SEBI circular dated August 13, 2021. This will be displayed only when Issuer selects Type of Security as anything other than Equity. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 8 The tenure of the convertible or exchangeable eligible securities shall not exceed 60 months from the date of allotment. This will be displayed only when Issuer selects Type of Security as anything other than Equity. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 9 The Company has given two days prior intimation to the Exchange about the proposed meeting of the Board of Directors in which fund raising by way of QIP issue is specifically mentioned as required under Regulations 29(1) and (2) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 10 The issue will be in compliance with in accordance with SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trust) Regulations 2014 (“InvITs Regulations”) and all the applicable SEBI Circulars issued time to time, and InvIT has complied with all the applicable statutory requirement. Only for type of security being Units. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 11 The issue will be in compliance with in accordance with SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trust) Regulations 2014 (“REITs Regulations”) and all the applicable SEBI Circulars issued time to time, and InvIT has complied with all the applicable statutory requirement. Only for type of security being Units. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 12 No statutory authority has restrained the InvIT / REIT from issuing said units. Only for type of security being Units. If No/NA - remark is mandatory Qualified Institutions Placement XBRL for Post Allotment Part I- Issue details If type of security is Equity / Units : Field Input type Values Mandatory/Non-Mandatory Symbol Text Mandatory Scrip Code Numeric Mandatory only if listed with BSE MSEI Symbol Text Mandatory only if listed with MSEI Relevant Date Date Mandatory Issue open date Date Mandatory Issue close date Date Mandatory Allotment date Date Mandatory If type of security is Non-Convertible Debt and Warrants: NCD Details Field Input type Values Mandatory/Non-Mandatory Symbol Text Mandatory Scrip Code Numeric Mandatory only if listed with BSE MSEI Symbol Text Mandatory only if listed with MSEI Relevant Date Date Mandatory Issue open date Date Mandatory Issue close date Date Mandatory Allotment date Date Mandatory Face value (Rs.) Integer Mandatory Paid up value (Rs.) Integer Mandatory Issue Price (Rs.) Integer Mandatory Tenure of the security Text Mandatory Coupon Rate, if applicable Percentage Mandatory Interest payment date (s) Date Mandatory Date of Redemption Date Mandatory Redemption price (Rs.) Integer Mandatory Put/call option or Early redemption date Date Mandatory Terms of put/ call or early redemption Text Mandatory Date of conversion (in case of convertible security) Date Mandatory Terms of conversion (in case of convertible security) Text Mandatory Credit Rating (if any) Text Mandatory Rating and Rating Agency Text Mandatory Date of Rating letter Date Mandatory ISIN Code Text Mandatory Number of securities issued in Demat Integer Mandatory Remarks Text Non-Mandatory Warrant Details: Field Input type Values Mandatory/Non-Mandatory Symbol Text Mandatory Scrip Code Numeric Mandatory only if listed with BSE MSEI Symbol Text Mandatory only if listed with MSEI Relevant Date Date Mandatory Issue open date Date Mandatory Issue close date Date Mandatory Allotment date Date Mandatory Ratio for Warrant Text Mandatory Issue Price Integer Mandatory Floor Price Integer Mandatory If type of security is Convertible Securities: Field Input type Values Mandatory/Non-Mandatory Symbol Text Mandatory Scrip Code Numeric Mandatory only if listed with BSE MSEI Symbol Text Mandatory only if listed with MSEI Relevant Date Date Mandatory Issue open date Date Mandatory Issue close date Date Mandatory Allotment date Date Mandatory Face value (Rs.) Integer Mandatory Paid up value (Rs.) Integer Mandatory Issue Price (Rs.) Integer Mandatory Tenure of the security Text Mandatory Coupon Rate, if applicable Percentage Mandatory Interest payment date (s) Date Mandatory Date of Redemption Date Mandatory Redemption price (Rs.) Integer Mandatory Put/call option or Early redemption date Date Mandatory Terms of put/ call or early redemption Text Mandatory Date of conversion (in case of convertible security) Date Mandatory Terms of conversion (in case of convertible security) Text Mandatory Credit Rating (if any) Text Mandatory Rating and Rating Agency Text Mandatory Date of Rating letter Date Mandatory ISIN Code Text Mandatory Number of securities issued in Demat Integer Mandatory Remarks Text Non-Mandatory Part II- List of Allottees If type of security selected is Units, then "securities" will be replaced with "units". Download excel format utility for list of allottees Upload excel utility for list of allottees Floor Price To be filled by Issuer Issue Price To be filled by Issuer DNR From: To be filled by Issuer DNR To: To be filled by Issuer Total No. of allottees To be filled by Issuer No. of allottees = no of rows in table below No of allottees Name of the Allottee PAN Number of securities allotted Percentage (%) Amount Raised (INR in Crores) Category 1 2 3 Total No. of securities Total Amount (INR in Crores) Total Qualified Institutional Buyers belonging to the same group / who are under the same control which are to be deemed as a single allottee Part III - Confirmation In connection with QIP application for Post allotment approval, we hereby confirm and certify that: S.N o Particulars Yes/No/N A Remarks 1 The issue is in compliance with the Chapter VI of SEBI (Issue of Capital & Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2018. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 2 The shares allotted rank pari-passu with the existing equity shares of the Company, including dividend. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 3 Above allottees are as per the Regulation 180(2) of the SEBI ICDR Regulation, 2018 (i.e. The qualified institutional buyers belonging to the same group or who are under same control shall be deemed to be a single allottee). If No/NA - remark is mandatory 4 The company, its whole-time directors, person(s) responsible for ensuring compliance with the securities laws, its promoters and the companies which are promoted by any of them are not in violation of the provisions of Regulation 34 of the SEBI (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 5 The company/RTA has updated the DNR details for the current allotment on depository portal. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 6 The company will submit/has submitted shareholding pattern as per Regulation 31(1)( c ) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 separately on NEAPS portal within the applicable timelines. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 7 The issue is of fully paid shares only. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 8 Minimum of 10% of eligible securities shall be allotted to Mutual Funds. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 9 No allotment, either directly or indirectly, is being made to promoter or any person related to the promoters of the issuer. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 10 In case the post-listing paid-up capital of the company, exceeds INR 25 crores, the Company confirms that they will comply with the provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, and amendment thereof as applicable. Only for SME If No/NA - remark is mandatory 11 In case of issuance of non-convertible debt instruments along with warrants, the issue is in compliance with SEBI circular dated August 13, 2021 This will be displayed only when Issuer selects Type of Security as anything other than Equity. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 12 The tenure of the convertible or exchangeable eligible securities has not exceeded 60 months from the date of allotment. This will be displayed only when Issuer selects Type of Security as anything other than Equity. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 13 The issue is in compliance with in accordance with SEBI (Infrastructure Investment Trust) Regulations 2014 (“InvITs Regulations”) and all the applicable SEBI Circulars issued time to time, and InvIT has complied with all the applicable statutory requirement. Only for type of security being Units. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 14 The issue is in compliance with in accordance with SEBI (Real Estate Investment Trust) Regulations 2014 (“REITs Regulations”) and all the applicable SEBI Circulars issued time to time, and InvIT has complied with all the applicable statutory requirement. Only for type of security being Units. If No/NA - remark is mandatory 15 No statutory authority has restrained the InvIT / REIT from issuing said units. Only for type of security being Units. If No/NA - remark is mandatory Pre SHP Post SHP Particulars No. of Shares % No. of Shares % Promoter Holding Public Holding Others Total No. of Shares Post SHP public holding will be auto calculated as Post SHP public holding = Pre SHP public holding + No. of securities (from List of Allottees table). This field should be editable. Promoter and Others Pre and Post holding will be same.