1 | 2024 Inspection Assentsure PAC (Headquartered in Singapore, Singapore) May 22, 2025 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2025-091 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2024 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2024 Inspection .................................................................................................. 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ......................... 10 Part I.C: Independence................................................................................................................ 12 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control ........................................................................ 13 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 2 2024 INSPECTION In the 2024 inspection of Assentsure PAC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of public companies. Our inspection was conducted in cooperation with the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority. We selected for review three audits of issuers with fiscal years ending in 2023. For each issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2024 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not necessarily constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work or of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on thescope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2024 INSPECTION The following information provides an overview of our 2024 inspection, which was our first inspection of this firm. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 2024 Firm data Total issuer audit clients in which the firm was the principal auditor 21 Total issuer audits in which the firm was not the principal auditor 3 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 1 8 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed 2 3 Audits in which the firm was the principal auditor 3 Audits in which the firm was not the principal auditor0 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) 1 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies3 Percentage of audits with Part I.A deficiencies 100% If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In many cases, the firm has performed remedial actions after the deficiency 1 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement) or for the firm’s role in an issuer audit during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspection. 2 The population from which audits are selected for review includes both audits for which the firm was the principal auditor and those where the firm was not the principal auditor but played a role in the audit. Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 4 was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing additional audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR, or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — it does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2024 inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2024 Audit area Audits reviewed Revenue and related accounts 3 Cash and cash equivalents 3 Other investments 2 Long-lived assets 1 Related party transactions 1 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, (1) at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR or (2) in audit(s) in which it was not the principal auditor, had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to fulfill the objectives of its role in the audit. Part I.B discusses certain deficiencies, if any, that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) or fulfill the objectives of its role in the audit(s), including instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to registration and reporting. This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. Part I.C discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules, if any, related to maintaining independence. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 6 deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work supporting the firm’s opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A) and industry sector. Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies, taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR None Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer A – Real Estate Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement and ICFR audits related to Revenue and Long-lived Assets. Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 7 Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The issuer used two information-technology (IT) systems to initiate, process, and/or record transactions related to certain revenue recognized at various locations. In its testing of controls over this revenue, the firm tested two IT-dependent manual controls that used data and reports generated or maintained by these IT systems. The accuracy and completeness of these data and reports depended on effective IT general controls (ITGCs). The firm, however, did not test the operating effectiveness of the ITGCs over these IT systems. (AS 2201.44) As a result of this deficiency in the firm’s testing of ITGCs, the firm’s testing of these IT-dependent manual controls was not sufficient. (AS 2201.46) The firm identified certain of the issuer’s locations as “in-scope” locations for purposes of testing controls over the revenue. The firm selected for testing certain controls over the processing and recording of the revenue that consisted of the issuer’s review and/or approval of (1) the detail sales price list, (2) sales price and other information in contracts, (3) certain sales reports, and (4) changes in estimated contract costs. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to test the operating effectiveness of these controls because the firm did not test the operating effectiveness of the controls at certain “in- scope” locations, which reported a significant amount of the revenue. (AS 2201.44) The firm did not perform any procedures to test, or test any controls over, the accuracy and completeness of the lists from which it selected its samples for testing. (AS 1105.10) For two of these controls, both of which involved the issuer’s review of estimated revenue and contract costs, the firm did not evaluate the specific review procedures that the control owners performed to assess the appropriateness of these estimates. (AS 2201.42 and .44) For certain other revenue, the following deficiencies were identified: The firm selected for testing a control over the processing and recording of this other revenue that consisted of the issuer’s review and approval of the revenue distribution. The firm did not identify and test any controls over the accuracy and completeness of a report used in the operation of this control. (AS 2201.39) The firm used issuer-prepared reports to substantively test this other revenue but did not perform any procedures to test, or test any controls over, the accuracy and completeness of these reports. (AS 1105.10) With respect to Long-lived Assets: During the year, the issuer identified events indicating that the carrying value of its long-lived assets may not be recoverable and performed an impairment analysis for each project. The firm’s approach for testing the impairment of long-lived assets was to test the issuer’s process, and the firm identified certain of the issuer’s locations as “in-scope” locations for purposes of testing long-lived assets for possible impairment. The following deficiencies were identified: Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 8 The firm did not identify and test any controls over the issuer’s evaluation of long-lived assets for possible impairment. (AS 2201.39) The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to test the impairment of long-lived assets because the firm did not test such assets for possible impairment at certain “in-scope” locations, which held a significant portion of the issuer’s long-lived assets. (AS 2301.08) The firm used an issuer-prepared report to substantively test long-lived assets for possible impairment but did not perform any procedures to test, or test any controls over, the accuracy and completeness of this report. (AS 1105.10) Issuer B – Communication Services Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue, Accounts Receivable, Variable Interest Entities (“VIEs”),and Related Party Transactions. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The issuer recognized revenue from contracts that included multiple performance obligations and allocated the total transaction price to the separate performance obligations based on relative standalone selling prices (SSPs). The firm selected a sample of transactions to test revenue. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm used issuer-prepared reports to substantively test revenue but did not perform any procedures to test, or test any controls over, the accuracy and completeness of these reports. (AS 1105.10) The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to evaluate the appropriateness of the issuer’s (1) determination of transaction price and (2) allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation, because the firm did not evaluate the effect of a sales discount on the transaction price and did not test the SSPs used to allocate revenue to the separate performance obligations. (AS 2301.08 and .13) The issuer recognized certain revenue based on electronic activity. The firm used activity information produced by the issuer to evaluate whether the issuer satisfied its performance obligations related to this revenue but did not perform any procedures to test, or test any controls over, the accuracy and completeness of this information. (AS 1105.10) The issuer recognized certain other revenue over the performance period. The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to test whether the issuer satisfied its performance obligations because the firm did not evaluate the reasonableness of the performance period. (AS 2301.08 and .13) Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 9 With respect to Accounts Receivable: Payments collected by the issuer were applied to the oldest outstanding accounts receivable balance first. The firm used a system-generated accounts receivable aging report to substantively test the allowance for doubtful accounts but did not perform procedures to test, or test any controls over, the accuracy of the report beyond agreeing a sample of balances from the accounts receivable aging report to the respective billings. (AS 1105.10) With respect to VIEs: The issuer derives revenue through consolidated VIEs and their subsidiaries and relies on contractual arrangements with the VIEs and their shareholders to control the business operations of the consolidated VIEs. The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to test the issuer’s ability to consolidate the VIEs because it did not perform any procedures to evaluate the nature of certain uncertainties disclosed by the issuer regarding (1) the validity of the contractual arrangements with the VIEs and their subsidiaries, (2) the structure of the VIEs, and (3) its ability to enforce the contractual arrangements, and perform additional procedures to address the risks associated with those uncertainties. (AS 2301.08) With respect to Related Party Transactions: The firm did not identify and evaluate a departure from GAAP related to the issuer’s omission of a disclosure required by FASB ASC Topic 850, Related Party Disclosures. (AS 2410.17; AS 2810.30 and 31) Issuer C – Information Technology Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue and VIEs. This was the firm’s initial audit of this issuer. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The issuer recognized revenue from contracts that included multiple performance obligations and allocated the total transaction price to the separate performance obligations based on relative SSPs. The firm’s approach for testing the allocation of revenue to the separate performance obligations was to test the issuer’s process. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not sufficiently evaluate whether the residual method that the issuer used to allocate the transaction price to the separate performance obligations was in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers because the firm did not evaluate whether the SSPs of certain performance obligations were highly variable. (AS 2501.10) Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 10 The firm did not sufficiently evaluate whether the issuer had a reasonable basis for the SSP of a performance obligation for certain transactions. (AS 2501.16) With respect to VIEs: The issuer derives revenue through a consolidated Variable Interest Entity (VIE) and its subsidiaries and relies on contractual arrangements with the VIE and its shareholders to control the business operations of the consolidated VIE. The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to test the issuer’s ability to consolidate the VIE because it did not perform any procedures to evaluate the nature of certain uncertainties disclosed by the issuer regarding (1) the validity of the contractual arrangements with the VIE and its subsidiaries, (2) the structure of the VIE, and (3) its ability to enforce the contractual arrangements, and perform additional procedures to address the risks associated with those uncertainties. (AS 2301.08) Audits with a Single Deficiency None PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES This section of our report discusses certain deficiencies that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s), including instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to registration and reporting. This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. As a result, the areas below were not necessarily reviewed on every audit. In some cases, we assess the firm’s compliance with specific PCAOB standards or rules on other audits that were not reviewed and include any instances of non- compliance below. The deficiencies below are presented in numerical order based on the PCAOB standard or rule with which the firm did not comply. We identified the following deficiencies: In three audits, the firm did not assemble a complete and final set of audit documentation for retention within 45 days following the report release date. In these instances, the firm was non- compliant with AS 1215, Audit Documentation. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not establish an understanding of the terms of the audit engagement with the audit committee, record such understanding in an engagement letter, and determine that the audit committee acknowledged and agreed to the terms of the engagement. The engagement letter used for this integrated audit did not address the testing of the issuer’s internal controls over financial reporting. In this instance, the firm was non- compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 11 In two of two audits reviewed, the firm’s written communications to management and the audit committee about control deficiencies identified during the audit did not include the definitions of significant deficiencies and material weaknesses. In these instances, the firm was non- compliant with AS 1305, Communications About Control Deficiencies in an Audit of Financial Statements. In two of three audits reviewed, the firm did not evaluate certain factors when determining that there were no risks of material misstatement related to a relevant assertion for a significant account and disclosure. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In one of two audits reviewed, the firm’s communication of a critical audit matter in the audit report included language that was inconsistent with information in the firm’s audit documentation. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. The firm included inaccurate information for Item 1.3, Primary Contact with the Board, in its report on Form 2. In addition, the firm omitted required information from Item 5.1, Firm’s Offices, in its report on Form 2. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 2200, Annual Report. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm’s report on Form AP included inaccurate information related to the participation in the audit by an other accounting firm. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. In three other audits, including the previous audit of one issuer, the firm did not file its report on Form AP by the relevant deadline. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. In one other audit, the firm’s report on Form AP included inaccurate information regarding the issuer CIK number. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 12 PART I.C: INDEPENDENCE This section of our report discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. An instance of potential non- compliance with SEC rules or an instance of non-compliance with PCAOB rules does not necessarily mean that the Board has concluded the firm was not objective and impartial throughout the audit and professional engagement period. Although this section includes an instance of potential non-compliance that we identified, there may be other instances of non-compliance with SEC or PCAOB rules related to independence that were not identified through our procedures or the firm’s monitoring activities. PCAOB-Identified We identified the following instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non- compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence: Under Rule 2-01(c)(7) of Regulation S-X, an accountant is not independent if it is engaged to render audit or non-audit services to an issuer or its subsidiaries without that engagement having been pre-approved by the audit committee. In three audits reviewed, we identified one instance for one issuer in which the firm could provide no persuasive evidence of the necessary audit committee pre-approval. Firm-Identified The firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. While the firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance, the number, large or small, of firm-identified instances of potential non-compliance may be reflective of the size of the firm, including the number of associated firms; the design and effectiveness of the firm’s independence monitoring activities; and the size and/or complexity of the issuers it audits, including the number of affiliates of those issuers. Therefore, we caution against making any comparison of firm- identified instances of potential non-compliance across firms. Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | 13 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the firm provided a written response to a draft of this report. Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 4007(b), the firm’s response, excluding any portion granted confidential treatment, is attached hereto and made part of this final inspection report. The Board does not make public any of a firm’s comments that address a nonpublic portion of the report unless a firm specifically requests otherwise. In some cases, the result may be that none of a firm’s response is made publicly available. In addition, pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(b), if a firm requests, and the Board grants, confidential treatment for any of the firm’s comments on a draft report, the Board does not include those comments in the final report. The Board routinely grants confidential treatment, if requested, for any portion of a firm’s response that addresses any point in the draft that the Board omits from, or any inaccurate statement in the draft that the Board corrects in, the final report. Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-2 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-3 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-4 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-5 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-6 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-7 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-8 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-9 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-10 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-11 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-12 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-13 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-14 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-15 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-16 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-17 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-18 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-19 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-20 Assentsure PAC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-091, May 22, 2025 | A-21 Redacted pursuant to Section 104(f) and/or (g)(2) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. A-1 |