Summary: The Goods and Services Tax Council, constituted under Article 279A of the Constitution of India, is the apex federal body entrusted with recommending rates, exemptions, and administrative mechanisms under the GST regime. The 57th GST Council Meeting, originally notified for September 12, 2026, in New Delhi, has been rescheduled to October 7, 2026, through a formal Office Memorandum issued by the GST Council Secretariat. The Officers’ Meeting will now be held on October 5 and 6, 2026, in New Delhi, while the 57th GST Council Meeting will be convened on October 7, 2026, under the chairpersonship of Union Finance Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman. The postponement has been attributed to India’s hosting of the BRICS Leaders’ Summit in New Delhi on September 12–13, 2026, with the scale of security, protocol, and administrative arrangements making it impracticable to concurrently host the GST Council Meeting. The rescheduling does not alter the Council’s constitutional mandate, composition, or decision-making framework. The forthcoming meeting assumes significance following the 56th GST Council Meeting held on September 3–4, 2025, and the subsequent GST rate restructuring. Issues reported to be under contemplation include simplification of GST registration procedures for businesses that pass on input tax credit exceeding ₹2.5 lakh per month. The postponement does not affect existing statutory compliance obligations, and practitioners are advised to continue monitoring official communications and use the additional time to refine representations and prepare for the October deliberations. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Background: The Original Schedule and the Superseding Memorandum The Revised Schedule Reason for the Postponement Significance of the Forthcoming Meeting Procedural Observations for Practitioners Conclusion Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction The Goods and Services Tax Council, constituted under Article 279A of the Constitution of India, stands as the apex federal body entrusted with recommending rates, exemptions, and administrative mechanisms under the GST regime. It has now come to be officially communicated that the 57th Meeting of the GST Council, originally notified for September 12, 2026, in New Delhi, has been rescheduled to October 7, 2026. This deferment, effected through a formal Office Memorandum issued by the GST Council Secretariat, merits a considered examination both from the standpoint of administrative propriety and its implications for stakeholders, including registered taxpayers, tax practitioners, and members of the trade and industry who await regulatory clarity on several pending matters. Background: The Original Schedule and the Superseding Memorandum By way of Office Memoranda dated August 28, 2026, and September 2, 2026, the GST Council Secretariat had originally notified the 57th Council Meeting to be convened on September 12, 2026, at New Delhi, with a preparatory Officers’ Meeting scheduled for September 10 and 11, 2026. It is a settled principle of administrative procedure that such notifications, being executive communications issued in the exercise of delegated authority, remain amenable to revision where circumstances so warrant, provided the revision is communicated through a document of equal or superior administrative sanction. In the present instance, a subsequent Office Memorandum has been issued, which, in unambiguous terms, supersedes the earlier schedule to the extent of the revised dates, thereby lending the postponement full procedural validity. The Revised Schedule Pursuant to the latest communication, the position now stands as follows: Officers’ Meeting: To be held in New Delhi on Monday, October 5, 2026, and continuing on Tuesday, October 6, 2026, from 10:30 A.M. onwards. 57th GST Council Meeting: To be convened on Wednesday, October 7, 2026. Chairperson: Union Finance Minister Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman, presiding in her capacity as ex-officio Chairperson of the Council under Article 279A(2)(a). Venue: New Delhi, with specific venue particulars and the final agenda to be communicated separately in due course by the Secretariat. It bears mention, for the benefit of practitioners advising clients on compliance timelines, that this constitutes only a change in the date of convening the Council meeting and not any alteration in the constitutional mandate, composition, or decision-making framework of the Council itself, which continues to comprise the Union Finance Minister, the Union Minister of State for Finance, and the Finance or Taxation Ministers nominated by each State Government. Reason for the Postponement The stated ground for rescheduling is a logistical clash arising from India’s hosting of the BRICS Leaders’ Summit in New Delhi, scheduled for September 12–13, 2026. Sources within the government, as conveyed to the press, have indicated that the scale of security, protocol, and administrative arrangements necessitated for an international summit of this magnitude rendered it impracticable to concurrently host the GST Council Meeting in the same city on an overlapping date. From a governance standpoint, this is a wholly reasonable and defensible basis for deferment, and does not, in the considered view of this analysis, reflect any substantive impediment or policy disagreement bearing upon the Council’s forthcoming deliberations. Significance of the Forthcoming Meeting It is pertinent to note that the 57th Meeting assumes considerable significance on account of the extended interval since the Council last convened in full session. The 56th GST Council Meeting was held on September 3 – 4, 2025, at which the Centre and the States arrived at a far reaching restructuring of the GST rate framework commonly referred to as GST 2.0 collapsing the erstwhile four-slab structure of 5%, 12%, 18%, and 28% (in force since the introduction of GST on July 1, 2017) into a simplified two tier structure of 5% and 18%, with a residual 40% rate reserved for ultra luxury and sin goods. This restructuring took effect from September 22, 2025. The Council will accordingly be reconvening after a gap exceeding one year an interval that is, by the Council’s own historical cadence, unusually protracted. Tax practitioners and industry bodies would therefore be well advised to anticipate a substantive and possibly extensive agenda at the October sitting, addressing matters that have accumulated in the interregnum. Among the issues reported to be under contemplation is the simplification of GST registration procedures for businesses that pass on input tax credit exceeding ₹2.5 lakh per month a matter of direct consequence to registered persons operating in high volume input credit chains, and one on which practitioners should advise clients to await the Council’s formal recommendations before altering existing compliance practices. Rule 14A GST Registration: ₹2.5 Lakh B2B Tax Limit provides related TaxGuru coverage of the simplified registration mechanism. Procedural Observations for Practitioners For the assistance of fellow advocates, chartered accountants, and tax consultants advising clientele on matters connected with the GST regime, the following procedural observations are offered: 1. No interim vacuum in compliance obligations: The postponement of the Council meeting has no bearing whatsoever on subsisting statutory obligations under the CGST Act, 2017, SGST Acts, or the IGST Act, 2017. Returns, payments, and other compliance timelines continue to operate in the ordinary course, uninterrupted by the rescheduling. 2. Pending representations and industry memoranda: Trade bodies and taxpayer associations that had proposed to submit representations for consideration at the September sitting would be well advised to treat the extended timeline as an opportunity to refine and consolidate their submissions before the Officers’ Meeting on October 5 – 6, 2026, which customarily precedes and informs the Council’s formal deliberations. 3. Monitoring official notifications: As the venue and final agenda are yet to be notified, practitioners are counselled to rely exclusively on official communications from the GST Council Secretariat and the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, rather than on unconfirmed media reports, for authoritative confirmation of the meeting’s particulars as the date approaches. Conclusion The rescheduling of the 57th GST Council Meeting to October 7, 2026, while occasioned by an extraneous and entirely legitimate logistical consideration namely, the concurrent hosting of the BRICS Summit does not detract from the anticipated substantive weight of the meeting’s eventual agenda. Given the extended gap since the 56th Meeting and the scale of reforms implemented in its aftermath, stakeholders across the spectrum of GST compliance would do well to treat the intervening weeks as a period of preparation rather than delay, so as to be adequately positioned to respond to whatever recommendations emerge from the Council’s deliberations in October. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Council Author Info Name: MUKESH SIKARWAR Qualification: MBA Company: MNC Location: INDORE, Madhya Pradesh Articles Published: 19 View full profile → More from MUKESH SIKARWAR GSTAT Quashes E-Way Bill Penalty for Bona Fide Nine-Minute Procedural Lapse September 1, 2026 ITR Filing Deadline 31st August 2026: Compliance Guide for Taxpayers August 26, 2026 GST Registration Requiremetns Under CGST Act, 2017 August 14, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Appeal Filed Before Section 107 Order Is Passed Not Maintainable: GSTAT Chennai September 7, 2026 Bombay HC Declines Interim Relief Over GST Recovery Citing Unjustified Delay September 7, 2026 GSTAT Finds Nil Profiteering as Cost Escalation Offsets GST ITC Benefit September 7, 2026 GSTAT Upholds EGVs as Valid GST Benefit Transfer, Orders ₹10,241 Fund Deposit September 7, 2026 GST ITC on Immovable Property: Eligibility & Risks September 6, 2026 Vague Fraud Allegation Cannot Invoke GST Section 74: SC September 6, 2026