1 | 2024 Inspection Fruci & Associates II, PLLC (Headquartered in Spokane, Washington) September 25, 2025 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2025-146 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2024 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2024 Inspection and Historical Data by Inspection Year ................................... 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ......................... 10 Part I.C: Independence................................................................................................................ 12 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control ........................................................................ 13 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 2 2024 INSPECTION In the 2024 inspection of Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of public companies. We selected for review six audits of issuers with fiscal years generally ending in 2023. For each issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2024 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not necessarily constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work or of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on thescope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2024 INSPECTION AND HISTORICAL DATA BY INSPECTION YEAR The following information provides an overview of our 2024 inspection as well as data from the previous inspection. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 20242022 Firm data Total issuer audit clients in which the firm was the principal auditor 61 31 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 1 4 4 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed6 3 Audits in which the firm was the principal auditor 6 3 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) 0 0 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies6 2 Percentage of audits with Part I.A deficiencies 100% 67% If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In many cases, the firm has performed remedial actions after the deficiency was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing additional audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR, or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. 1 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement) during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspection. Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 4 Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — it does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. In connection with our 2024 inspection procedures for one audit, the issuer restated its financial statements to correct a misstatement, and the firm revised and reissued its report on the financial statements. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2024 inspection and the previous inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2024 2022 Audit area Audits reviewedAudit areaAudits reviewed Revenue and related accounts 4 Revenue and related accounts 2 Goodwill and intangible assets 3 Related party transactions 2 Other investments 2 Other assets 1 Significant accounts and disclosures 1 Inventory 1 Debt 1 Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. Part I.B discusses certain deficiencies, if any, that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. Part I.C discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules, if any, related to maintaining independence. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 6 Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work supporting the firm’s opinion on the issuer’s financial statements. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A). Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies, taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR Issuer A – Industrials Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue and Related Accounts and Intangible Assets. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue and Related Accounts, for which the firm identified a fraud risk and a significant risk: The firm selected a sample of transactions to test revenue and performed cut-off testing. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm determined that the issuer was unable to support whether or not it had satisfied its performance obligations for several revenue transactions selected for testing. As a result, the Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 7 firm identified adjusting entries that the issuer recorded. The firm did not perform procedures to obtain further audit evidence to address whether the adjusting journal entries were appropriate or, if the firm was unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to have a reasonable basis to conclude about whether the financial statements as a whole were free of material misstatement, the firm should have expressed a qualified opinion or a disclaimer of opinion. (AS 2810.35) The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to evaluate whether two additional journal entries that it identified to reverse revenue, which the issuer recorded, were appropriate, because it did not evaluate the appropriateness of the offsets to the reversed revenue. (AS 2301.08 and .13) In connection with our review, the issuer reevaluated its accounting for certain revenue and related accounts and concluded that a material misstatement existed that had not been previously identified. The issuer subsequently corrected this misstatement in a restatement of its financial statements, and the firm revised and reissued its report on the financial statements. The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to evaluate whether the issuer recognized certain revenue in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, because it did not evaluate the issuer’s conclusions about collectability and satisfaction of performance obligations, beyond obtaining confirmations from certain customers. (AS 2301.08 and .13) The firm did not perform procedures to test the issuer’s conclusion that an allowance for doubtful accounts was not necessary, beyond testing the issuer’s accounts receivable aging report for clerical accuracy and completeness and testing certain subsequent cash receipts. (AS 2501.07) With respect to Intangible Assets, for which the firm identified a significant risk: The issuer performed a quantitative assessment to determine whether its intangible assets were impaired. The firm’s approach for substantively testing this assessment was to develop an independent expectation of the fair value of the intangible assets. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not perform procedures to demonstrate that, in developing its independent expectation, it took into account certain requirements of the applicable financial framework so that its independent expectation considered the factors relevant to the estimate. (AS 2501.21) The firm did not perform procedures to demonstrate it had a reasonable basis for certain assumptions it independently derived, beyond performing a sensitivity analysis for one of those assumptions. (AS 2501.22) The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to demonstrate that it had a reasonable basis, including taking into account its understanding of the issuer’s process, for another assumption it derived, because it did not demonstrate how its assumption took into account certain factors relevant to the estimate. (AS 2501.21 and .22) The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate the relevance and reliability of information it obtained from an external source and used to develop one of its assumptions. (AS 1105.04 and .06) Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 8 Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer B – Industrials Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to all Significant Accounts and Disclosures. Description of the deficiencies identified The firm did not plan and perform an audit that provided a reasonable basis for its audit opinion on the issuer’s financial statements because its procedures were limited to establishing a materiality level for the financial statements, certain planning procedures, and obtaining certain issuer-prepared documents. (AS 1101.03; AS 1105.04; AS 2101.08 and .10; AS 2105.03; AS 2110.04; AS 2301.08; AS 2401.57; AS 2410.03; AS 2415.03; AS 2805.05; AS 2810.30 and .31) Issuer C Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Equity-Method Investments, for which the firm identified a significant risk. Description of the deficiencies identified The issuer held equity-method investments with various investees. For one equity-method investment, the following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not perform procedures, beyond inquiry, to evaluate whether the issuer evaluated whether there were any factors or indicators that there was an other than temporary decrease in the value of this investment in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 323, Investments – Equity Method and Joint Ventures, including consideration of certain factors of which the firm was aware that indicated that there was a loss in the value of the investment that was other than a temporary decline. (AS 2301.08 and .11; AS 2810.03) The firm did not perform procedures, beyond inquiry, to evaluate whether the issuer recognized its share of the earnings or losses of the investee. (AS 2301.08 and .11) The firm did not sufficiently evaluate the issuer’s conclusion not to consolidate this investee, because it did not evaluate whether the issuer had a controlling financial interest in the investee. (AS 2301.08 and .11) For another equity-method investment, the firm did not perform procedures, beyond inquiry, to test the valuation of this investment at year end and the related impairment losses. Further, the firm did not Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 9 perform procedures to test whether impairment losses were recorded in the appropriate period even though it was aware of certain contrary evidence. (AS 2301.08; AS 2810.03) Issuer D – Health Care Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Goodwill, for which the firm identified a fraud risk and a significant risk. Description of the deficiencies identified The issuer reported goodwill related to certain reporting units. The firm did not perform any procedures to evaluate whether the issuer identified its reporting units in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other.(AS 2301.08 and .13) For one reporting unit, the issuer engaged an external specialist to perform a quantitative assessment to evaluate goodwill for impairment. The firm’s approach for substantively testing the quantitative assessment was to test the issuer’s process and develop an independent expectation. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of certain significant assumptions used by the company’s specialist in the quantitative assessment and/or used by the firm in developing its independent expectation. (AS 1105.A8b; AS 2501.16) The firm did not perform procedures to demonstrate it had a reasonable basis for certain assumptions it independently derived and used in its independent expectation. (AS 2501.22) For another reporting unit, the issuer performed a qualitative assessment to evaluate goodwill for impairment and determined that it was not more likely than not that the carrying value of the reporting unit was more than its fair value. The firm’s approach for substantively testing whether this goodwill was impaired was to develop an independent expectation of the fair value of the reporting unit. The firm did not perform procedures to demonstrate it had a reasonable basis for certain assumptions it independently derived and used in developing its independent expectation. (AS 2501.22) Audits with a Single Deficiency Issuer E Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified a deficiency in the financial statement audit related to Investments, for which the firm identified a significant risk. Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 10 Description of the deficiency identified The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate the issuer’s qualitative assessments to evaluate whether certain of its investments were impaired. (AS 2301.08 and .11) Issuer F Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified a deficiency in the financial statement audit related to Goodwill. Description of the deficiency identified The issuer performed a quantitative assessment, using a discounted cash flow analysis, to assess goodwill for impairment. The firm did not perform procedures to test the issuer’s quantitative assessment, beyond comparing the analysis with prior year analyses, testing the mathematical accuracy of the analysis, and researching general industry economic conditions. (AS 2501.07) PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES This section of our report discusses certain deficiencies that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. As a result, the areas below were not necessarily reviewed on every audit. In some cases, we assess the firm’s compliance with specific PCAOB standards or rules on other audits that were not reviewed and include any instances of non- compliance below. The deficiencies below are presented in numerical order based on the PCAOB standard or rule with which the firm did not comply. We identified the following deficiencies: In five of six audits reviewed, the firm, when testing journal entries for evidence of possible material misstatement due to fraud, did not perform sufficient procedures to determine whether the journal entry population from which it made its selections was complete. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1105, Audit Evidence. In one of six audits reviewed, the firm did not assemble a complete and final set of audit documentation for retention within 45 days following the report release date. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1215, Audit Documentation.  In one of six audits reviewed, the firm did not obtain the required engagement quality review for the audit. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant withAS 1220, Engagement Quality Review. Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 11  In one of six audits reviewed, the firm did not make any of the required communications to the issuer’s audit committee. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In four of six audits reviewed, the firm did not make a required communication to the audit committee related to certain critical accounting estimates. In two of these audits, the firm did not make a required communication to the audit committee related to the timing of the audit. In another two of these four audits, the firm did not make a required communication to the audit committee related to uncorrected misstatements. In one of the four audits, the firm did not make a required communication to the audit committee related to certain critical accounting policies and practices. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In two of six audits reviewed, the firm did not communicate to the audit committee all of the significant risks identified through its risk assessment procedures. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In one of six audits reviewed, the firm did not provide a copy of the management representation letter to the audit committee. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees, and AS 2805, Management Representations. In two of six audits reviewed, the firm did not identify a fraud risk related to the risk of management override of controls. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In five of six audits reviewed, the firm, when testing journal entries for evidence of possible material misstatement due to fraud, did not have an appropriate rationale for limiting its testing of entries it identified as having certain fraud risk characteristics to certain entries. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2401, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. In one of six audits reviewed, the firm’s audit report did not include an explanatory paragraph related to the correction of a material misstatement in previously issued financial statements. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2820, Evaluating Consistency of Financial Statements. In one of six audits reviewed, the firm’s audit report incorrectly identified one of the issuer’s financial statements. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. In four of six audits reviewed, the firm’s communication of a critical audit matter in the audit report included language that was inconsistent with information in the firm’s audit documentation. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 12 In one of six audits, the firm did not file one or more reports on Form AP by the relevant deadline. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. PART I.C: INDEPENDENCE This section of our report discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. An instance of potential non- compliance with SEC rules or an instance of non-compliance with PCAOB rules does not necessarily mean that the Board has concluded the firm was not objective and impartial throughout the audit and professional engagement period. Although this section includes instances of potential non-compliance that we identified, there may be other instances of non-compliance with SEC or PCAOB rules related to independence that were not identified through our procedures or the firm’s monitoring activities. PCAOB-Identified We identified the following instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non- compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence: Under Rule 2-01(c)(7) of Regulation S-X, an accountant is not independent if it is engaged to render audit or non-audit services to an issuer or its subsidiaries without that engagement having been pre- approved by the audit committee. In six audits reviewed, we identified 10 instances across two issuers in which the firm could provide no persuasive evidence of the necessary audit committee pre-approval. Firm-Identified The firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. While the firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance, the number, large or small, of firm-identified instances of potential non-compliance may be reflective of the size of the firm, including the number of associated firms; the design and effectiveness of the firm’s independence monitoring activities; and the size and/or complexity of the issuers it audits, including the number of affiliates of those issuers. Therefore, we caution against making any comparison of firm- identified instances of potential non-compliance across firms. Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | 13 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the firm provided a written response to a draft of this report. Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 4007(b), the firm’s response, excluding any portion granted confidential treatment, is attached hereto and made part of this final inspection report. The Board does not make public any of a firm’s comments that address a nonpublic portion of the report unless a firm specifically requests otherwise. In some cases, the result may be that none of a firm’s response is made publicly available. In addition, pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(b), if a firm requests, and the Board grants, confidential treatment for any of the firm’s comments on a draft report, the Board does not include those comments in the final report. The Board routinely grants confidential treatment, if requested, for any portion of a firm’s response that addresses any point in the draft that the Board omits from, or any inaccurate statement in the draft that the Board corrects in, the final report. Fruci & Associates II, PLLC, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-146, September 25, 2025 | A-2 A-1 |