National Stock Exchange of India Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/ 2023/30 Date: April 10, 2023 To, All Listed Entities, Sub: Additional affirmations by Practicing Company Secretaries (PCS) in Annual Secretarial Compliance Report (ASCR) With reference to our Circular no. NSE/CML/ 2023/21 dated March 16, 2023, regarding additional affirmations by PCS in ASCR, wherein point no. 1 is being replaced with the below mentioned point: Sr. No. Particulars Compliance status (Yes/No/NA) Observations/ Remarks by PCS* 1. Secretarial Standards: The compliances of the listed entity are in accordance with the applicable Secretarial Standards (SS) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries India (ICSI) Rest all the details forming part of the said circular no. NSE/CML/2023/21 dated March 16, 2023, remains unchanged and the revised format is attached as Annexure A. Further, kindly note that currently the listed entities are submitting the ASCR in both PDF and XBRL mode. Since, the XBRL mode of submission is under development hence, provisionally the ASCR to be submitted in PDF format via Announcement over the path NEAPS > Compliance > Announcements > Announcements/ Corporate Actions Later, the listed entities shall also be mandatorily required to submit the ASCR in XBRL mode as well. For and on behalf of National Stock Exchange of India Limited Ankita Gupta Manager National Stock Exchange of India Annexure A 1. Based on various discussions with SEBI, following are the additional affirmations to be provided while submitting ASCR Sr. No. Particulars Compliance status (Yes/No/NA) Observations/ Remarks by PCS* 1. Secretarial Standards: The compliances of the listed entity are in accordance with the applicable Secretarial Standards (SS) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries India (ICSI) 2. Adoption and timely updation of the Policies: • All applicable policies under SEBI Regulations are adopted with the approval of board of directors of the listed entities • All the policies are in conformity with SEBI Regulations and has been reviewed & timely updated as per the regulations/circulars/guidelines issued by SEBI 3. Maintenance and disclosures on Website: • The Listed entity is maintaining a functional website • Timely dissemination of the documents/ information under a separate section on the website • Web-links provided in annual corporate governance reports under Regulation 27(2) are accurate and specific which re-directs to the relevant document(s)/ section of the website 4. Disqualification of Director: None of the Director of the Company are disqualified under Section 164 of Companies Act, 2013 5. To examine details related to Subsidiaries of listed entities: (a) Identification of material subsidiary companies (b) Requirements with respect to disclosure of material as well as other subsidiaries National Stock Exchange of India Sr. No. Particulars Compliance status (Yes/No/NA) Observations/ Remarks by PCS* 6. Preservation of Documents: The listed entity is preserving and maintaining records as prescribed under SEBI Regulations and disposal of records as per Policy of Preservation of Documents and Archival policy prescribed under SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015. 7. Performance Evaluation: The listed entity has conducted performance evaluation of the Board, Independent Directors and the Committees at the start of every financial year as prescribed in SEBI Regulations 8. Related Party Transactions: (a) The listed entity has obtained prior approval of Audit Committee for all Related party transactions (b) In case no prior approval obtained, the listed entity shall provide detailed reasons along with confirmation whether the transactions were subsequently approved/ratified/rejected by the Audit committee 9. Disclosure of events or information: The listed entity has provided all the required disclosure(s) under Regulation 30 along with Schedule III of SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015 within the time limits prescribed thereunder. 10. Prohibition of Insider Trading: The listed entity is in compliance with Regulation 3(5) & 3(6) SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 National Stock Exchange of India Sr. No. Particulars Compliance status (Yes/No/NA) Observations/ Remarks by PCS* 11. Actions taken by SEBI or Stock Exchange(s), if any: No Actions taken against the listed entity/ its promoters/ directors/ subsidiaries either by SEBI or by Stock Exchanges (including under the Standard Operating Procedures issued by SEBI through various circulars) under SEBI Regulations and circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder 12. Additional Non-compliances, if any: No any additional non-compliance observed for all SEBI regulation/circular/guidance note etc. *Observations/Remarks by PCS are mandatory if the Compliance status is provided as ‘No’ or ‘NA’ 2. Revised Format of Annual Secretarial Compliance Report: Additional columns have been inserted in the format of ASCR which is provided below: (a) The listed entity has complied with the provisions of the above Regulations and circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder, except in respect of matters specified below: - Sr . N o. Compliance Requirement (Regulations/ circulars/guid elines including specific clause) Regul ation/ Circul ar No. Deviati ons Actio n Taken by Type of Action Detai ls of Viola tion Fine Amoun t Observati ons/Rem arks of the Practicin g Company Secretary Manag ement Respon se Remar ks Advisory/Cla rification/Fin e/Show Cause Notice/ Warning, etc. National Stock Exchange of India (b) The listed entity has taken the following actions to comply with the observations made in previous reports: Sr . N o. Compliance Requirement (Regulations/ circulars/guid elines including specific clause) Regul ation/ Circul ar No. Deviati ons Actio n Taken by Type of Action Detai ls of Viola tion Fine Amoun t Observati ons/Rem arks of the Practicin g Company Secretary Manag ement Respon se Remark s Advisory/Cla rification/Fin e/Show Cause Notice/ Warning, etc. Kindly note: (1) Table (a) and (c) of the SEBI ASCR format issued vide SEBI circular no. CIR/CFD/CMD1/27/2019 dated February 08, 2019, will be merged. (2) Point (b) of the SEBI ASCR format will be omitted as the same has been included in the additional affirmations (3) Table (d) will be revised and re-numbered to table (b) (4) Columns marked in red are the additional columns inserted The Listed entities are advised to bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of all the Company Secretaries in practice. The abovementioned circular will be effective from the financial year ended March 31, 2023 onwards.