Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/04 Date: January 10, 2023 The Company Secretary All Listed Companies Subject: Seeking of comments / feedback on the XBRL being introduced for submission of Announcements pertaining to all notices of Shareholders Meeting in phase manner 1. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this document is to seek comments / feedback on the proposal to migrate from Portable Document Format (PDF) to eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) format for submitting corporate announcements pertaining to all notices of shareholders meeting as required under the provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (LODR) read alongwith SEBI Circular dated September 09, 2015, as amended from time to time and such applicable laws. 2. BACKGROUND: Listed entities are required to submit periodical compliance filings to Stock Exchange(s) within prescribed timelines as laid down in SEBI Listing Regulations and accordingly it was mandated to report XBRL based filings for financials from year 2015 onwards. Over the period, Stock Exchanges in phase manner has been aiming to convert filings made under SEBI Regulations from PDF to XBRL. Listed entities file various disclosures under Regulation 30 of LODR with such details as are sought under the applicable Regulations/Circulars. With an objective to standardise securities market data it was deliberated that XBRL would be implemented for all corporate filings. Accordingly, Stock Exchanges have implemented XBRL based compliance filing mechanism featuring identical and homogenous compliance data structures which will not only ease the compliance burden on listed entities but also will enable analysis on the data submitted by the listed entities. Hence in this regard, filing of announcement pertaining to all notices of shareholders meeting, would require listed entities to file the same in XBRL exclusively in the phase manner as per below, formats of which are made available in para 4 hereinbelow: Phase I – Details of only the agenda heading will be captured Phase II – All the details forming part of the notice will be captured 3. ISSUES AND DELIBERATIONS: Please note that the details required are typically descriptive in nature and based on the LODR provisions and applicable SEBI Circular. Accordingly, listed entities can provide their comments/feedback/suggestions/observations pertaining to any additions/modifications in the fields of the attached format for Phase I. Further circular related to Phase II will be issued at a later stage. 4. COMMENTS FROM LISTED ENTITIES Considering the implications of the XBRL filing by listed entities, comments in respect of the subject are solicited. Comments may be sent by email to DL-Announcement@nse.co.in in the following format: Phase – I - Details of only the agenda heading will be captured Name of entity / person: Contact Number & Email Address: Sr. No Event: Notice of Shareholders Meeting Subject/Heading/ Field Comments/ Suggestion Detailed Rationale While sending email, kindly mention the subject as “Comments / Feedback on the XBRL being introduced for notice of shareholders meeting” The comments may be sent by email to DL-Announcement@nse.co.in latest by January 12, 2023. Enclosed is the draft format for the XBRL being introduced. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Dhaval Shah Manager – Listing Encl: Draft Format for XBRL being introduced for Notice of Shareholders Meeting NOTICE OF SHAREHOLDERS MEETING PARTICULARS SUB-PARTICULARS NSE Symbol Name of the Company BSE Scrip Code MSE Symbol ISIN Event 1. Annual General Meeting 2. Extra-ordinary Meeting 3. Postal Ballot 4. NCLT / Court Convened Meeting 5. Others If others, please specify Mode of Meeting 1. Physical Meeting 2. Video Conference (VC) or Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM) Number of Shareholders Meeting Day, Date, Time and Place of Shareholders Meeting Day Date Meeting Commencement Time Place End date of Postal Ballot Voting Number of agenda / business to be transacted Details of Resolution/Agenda Type of Resolution Ordinary Resolution Special Resolution Others Resolution Header - Searchable Content (Drop down will be provided based on the type of resolution. Resolution headers are attached herewith as Annexure I) Any other information Remarks (website dissemination) Remarks for exchange (not for website dissemination) Annexure I Ordinary Resolution category Adoption of Financial Statements Appointment of Statutory Auditors Appointment of Branch Auditors Appointment/ Re-appointment of Director Issue of Bonus Shares Cessation of Directorship Change in Authorized Capital Change in terms of appointment of a Director Approval for appointment under Casual Vacancy Confirmation of Dividend Paid Declaration of Dividend Donation to Charitable trusts Office of Profit Promoters Re-classification Remuneration of Statutory Auditors Ratification of appointment of Statutory Auditors Ratification of Remuneration of Cost Auditors Related Party Transaction Stock Split Removal Of Director Acceptance of Deposits Payment of Royalty Retiring Director not seeking re-appointment Approval for remuneration of Chairman of the Bank Appointment of Cost Auditors Grant of ESOP options to Directors Special Resolution category Alteration in Memorandum of Association / Articles of Association Appointment of Director Approval/ Ratification of ESOP Scheme Approval of ESOPs to employees of Subsidiaries/ Holding Company Capital Reduction Change in Name of Company Change in Objects Clause Change in Registered Office Continuation of Non-executive Director above 75 years of age Approval for authorization to ESOP Trust for Secondary Acquisition Loan to ESOP Trust for ESOP Scheme Continuation of Independent Director above 75 years of age Conversion of Loan into Equity Creation of Charge on Company's Assets Debt Restructuring Delisting of Shares Disposal of Shares in Subsidiary ESOP Repricing Fee for Service of Document FII Investment Limit Increase in Board strength Increase in Borrowing Limits Inter-Corporate Loans/ Guarantees/ Investments Issue of Equity shares Issue of non-convertible debt securities Issue of Preference shares Issue of Securities Place for keeping registers & documents Removal of Statutory Auditors Remuneration/ Revision in remuneration of Executive Directors Sale of Assets Share Buy back Variation in terms of IPO Proceeds Waiver of Excess Remuneration Continuation of Executive Director above 70 years of age Acquisition of shares Ordinary / Special Resolution category Changes due to Shareholders Agreement Change in Designation of Director Payment of Commission to Independent Directors Payment of Commission to Non-Executive Directors Scheme of Arrangement Appointment / Re-appointment of Executive Directors (Including Remuneration) Appointment/ Re-appointment of Non-Executive Director (Including Remuneration)