1 | 2024 Inspection JP Centurion & Partners PLT (Headquartered in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia) February 27, 2025 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2025-045 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2024 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2024 Inspection and Historical Data by Inspection Year ................................... 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ........................... 8 Part I.C: Independence................................................................................................................ 11 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control ........................................................................ 12 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 2 2024 INSPECTION In the 2024 inspection of JP Centurion & Partners PLT, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of public companies. We selected for review three audits of issuers with fiscal years ending in 2022. For each issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2024 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not necessarily constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work or of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on thescope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2024 INSPECTION AND HISTORICAL DATA BY INSPECTION YEAR The following information provides an overview of our 2024 inspection as well as data from the previous inspection. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 20242021 Firm data Total issuer audit clients in which the firm was the principal auditor 17 9 Total issuer audits in which the firm was not the principal auditor 0 0 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 1 3 3 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed3 3 Audits in which the firm was the principal auditor 3 3 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) 0 0 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies3 3 Percentage of audits with Part I.A deficiencies 100% 100% If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In many cases, the firm has performed remedial actions after the deficiency was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing additional 1 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement) or for the firm’s role in an issuer audit during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspection. JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 4 audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR, or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — it does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2024 inspection and the previous inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2024 2021 Audit area Audits reviewedAudit areaAudits reviewed Revenue and related accounts 3 Revenue and related accounts 3 Cash and cash equivalents 3 Business combinations 2 Related party transactions 2 Cash and cash equivalents 2 Inventory 1 Certain assets 1 Other investments 1 A significant estimate 1 JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. Part I.B discusses certain deficiencies, if any, that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s), including instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to registration and reporting. This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. Part I.C discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules, if any, related to maintaining independence. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 6 Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work supporting the firm’s opinion on the issuer’s financial statements. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A). Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies, taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR None Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer A Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue, Other Investments, Cash,and Journal Entries. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The issuer recognized revenue from multiple business units. In determining the extent to which audit procedures over revenue should be performed at certain business units, the firm did not evaluate JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 7 whether (1) specific risks of material misstatement existed at these business units and (2) the risks of material misstatement the firm identified for the business units subject to more extensive audit procedures also applied to these business units such that, in combination, they presented a reasonable possibility of material misstatement. (AS 2101.11 and .12) With respect to Other Investments, for which the firm identified a significant risk: The issuer engaged an external specialist to determine the fair value of certain investments. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of the significant assumptions developed by the issuer or the company’s specialist that were used by the company’s specialist in determining the fair value for certain investments. (AS 1105.A8b; AS 2501.16) The firm did not evaluate the relevance and reliability of certain data from sources external to the issuer that the company’s specialist used to determine the fair value for certain investments. (AS 1105.A8a) The firm did not perform, or arrange to have another auditor perform, auditing procedures to an investee’s unaudited financial statements that the company’s specialist used to determine the fair value of an investment. (AS 1105.B1 and .B3) With respect to Cash: The firm used an external digital confirmation platform to confirm certain cash but did not perform any procedures to support its reliance on this digital platform’s ability to maintain control over the confirmation requests and responses. (AS 2310.28) With respect to Journal Entries, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: For certain of the issuer’s business units, the firm did not identify and select journal entries and other adjustments for testing, without having an appropriate basis for excluding those business units. (AS 2401.61) Issuer B – Industrials Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue and Cash. Description of the deficiencies With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The firm did not evaluate whether the method used by the issuer to recognize estimated revenue was in conformity with certain requirements of FASB ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 8 (AS 2501.10) In addition, the firm did not sufficiently evaluate whether the issuer’s method to recognize revenue on a gross basis was appropriate because the firm did not evaluate certain indicators of net basis that existed. (AS 2301.08 and .13) The firm did not identify and evaluate a departure from GAAP related to the issuer’s omission of certain disclosures related to revenue required by FASB ASC Topic 606. (AS 2810.30 and .31) With respect to Cash: The firm used an external digital confirmation platform to confirm certain cash but did not perform sufficient procedures to support its reliance on this digital platform’s ability to maintain control over the confirmation requests and responses, because its procedures were limited to obtaining an understanding of only certain aspects of this digital platform. (AS 2310.28) Issuer C Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Related Party Transactions, for which the firm identified a significant risk. Description of the deficiencies identified The firm did not evaluate the relevance of certain evidence it used in its assessment of the recoverability of amounts due from related parties. (AS 1105.04 and .06) The firm did not evaluate the presentation, as a current asset, of a portion of amounts due from a related party. (AS 2410.17) Audits with a Single Deficiency None PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES This section of our report discusses certain deficiencies that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s), including instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to registration and reporting. This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. As a result, the areas below were not necessarily reviewed on every audit. In some cases, we assess the firm’s compliance with specific JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 9 PCAOB standards or rules on other audits that were not reviewed and include any instances of non- compliance below. The deficiencies below are presented in numerical order based on the PCAOB standard or rule with which the firm did not comply. We identified the following deficiencies: In two of three audits reviewed, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to (1) significant accounting policies and practices and (2) the firm’s evaluation of the quality of the issuer’s financial reporting. In addition, in one of these audits, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to (1) the significant risks identified through its risk assessment procedures; and (2) the name, location, and planned responsibilities of an other accounting firm that performed audit procedures in the audit. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not provide to the audit committee the required communications in writing of all material weaknesses identified during the audit. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1305, Communications About Control Deficiencies in an Audit of Financial Statements. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not hold a discussion among the key engagement team members about the potential for material misstatement due to fraud. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not identify and assess the risks of material misstatement related to certain relevant assertions for a significant account and disclosure. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm, when testing journal entries for evidence of possible material misstatement due to fraud, did not have an appropriate rationale for limiting its testing of entries it identified as having certain fraud risk characteristics to certain entries. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2401, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. In the three audits reviewed, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to its evaluation of the issuer’s identification of, accounting for, and disclosure of its relationships and transactions with related parties. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2410, Related Parties. In two of three audits reviewed, the firm included in its audit report an explanatory paragraph describing substantial doubt about the issuer's ability to continue as a going concern, but did not place it immediately following the opinion paragraph. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2415, Consideration of an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 10 In two of three audits reviewed, the engagement team performed procedures to determine whether or not matters were critical audit matters but, in performing those procedures, did not include certain matters that were communicated, or required to be communicated, to the audit committee and that related to accounts or disclosures that were material to the financial statements. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. These instances of non-compliance do not necessarily mean that other critical audit matters should have been communicated in the auditor’s report. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm’s communication of a critical audit matter in the audit report included language that was inconsistent with information in the firm’s audit documentation. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. The firm omitted required information from Item 4.1, Audit Reports Issued by the Firm for Issuers, and Item 5.1, Firm’s Offices, in its report on Form 2. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 2200, Annual Report. In one audit, the firm’s report on Form AP included inaccurate information regarding the issuer CIK number. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. In two audits, the firm incorrectly included certain of its audit hours in the total number of audit hours used to complete Part IV of the firm’s report on Form AP. In addition, in these same audits, the firm did not document the computation of total audit hours and the method used to estimate hours incurred by other auditors. In these instances, the firm was non- compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. In two of three audits reviewed, and in nine other audits, the firm’s report on Form AP omitted information related to a Partner ID by which the engagement partner had been previously identified on a Form AP filed by a different registered public accounting firm. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. In one of three audits reviewed, and in five other audits, including the prior year audit of one issuer, the firm did not file its report on Form AP by the relevant deadline. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 11 PART I.C: INDEPENDENCE In the 2024 inspection, we did not identify, and the firm did not bring to our attention, any instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence.Although this section does not include any instances of potential non- compliance that we identified or the firm brought to our attention, there may be instances of non- compliance with SEC or PCAOB rules related to independence that were not identified through our procedures or the firm’s monitoring activities. While the firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance, the number, large or small, of firm-identified instances of potential non-compliance may be reflective of the size of the firm, including the number of associated firms; the design and effectiveness of the firm’s independence monitoring activities; and the size and/or complexity of the issuers it audits, including the number of affiliates of those issuers. Therefore, we caution against making any comparison of firm- identified instances of potential non-compliance across firms. JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | 12 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. JP Centurion & Partners PLT, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-045, February 27, 2025 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the Board provided the firm an opportunity to review and comment on a draft of this report. The firm did not provide a written response. A-1 |