Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref. No: NSE/CML/2022/17 Date: April 11, 2022 The Company Secretary All Listed Companies Subject: XBRL based filing of Investor Grievance for Listed Companies at NSE Dear Sir/ Madam, This has a reference with Regulation 13(3) of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, wherein the listed entities are required to file with the recognized stock exchange(s) on a quarterly basis, within twenty one days from the end of each quarter, a statement giving the number of investor complaints pending at the beginning of the quarter, those received during the quarter, disposed of during the quarter and those remaining unresolved at the end of the quarter. With a view to make the disclosure more accurate and efficient, the Exchange is introducing an offline utility for XBRL filling under Regulation 13(3) of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015. The Excel Utility for filing the Investor Grievance Report in the prescribed format in XBRL mode has been attached as Annexure 1. Steps for submission of Investor Grievance Report in XBRL mode on NSE’s Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS) Portal: 1. Using the Investor Grievance excel utility (attached as Annexure 1), generate Xml and follow the steps as mentioned below for submission. 2. Upload XBRL file generated using utility provided as Annexure to this circular in NEAPS a. Go to Compliance > Common XBRL upload > Select option of Investor Grievance from Modules dropdown and select appropriate quarter. b. Click on upload XBRL file tab c. Browse and select Xml file to be uploaded d. On successful upload, “File Uploaded successfully” message would be displayed e. Acknowledgement mail would be received on the registered email. In case of any difficulty / need any clarification, you may write to us on nsexbrl@nse.co.in. It may be noted that filings in respect of Investor Grievance Report [Regulation 13(3)] by all listed companies shall be in XBRL mode only. Exchange will take cognizance of only those disclosures which are filed under relevant path as specified above using NSE’s Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS). Companies which have already submitted the disclosure in XBRL form till date may please follow the process mentioned in the circular from next quarter onwards. Listed entities are requested to please take note of the above and ensure compliance. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. Rajendra Bhosale Senior Manager Encl: Annexure 1