George Kostolampros Named PCAOB General Counsel WASHINGTON, Jul. 1, 2026 The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) today announced that George Kostolampros has been appointed the PCAOB’s General Counsel. As General Counsel, Mr. Kostolampros will provide legal advice and counsel on all PCAOB operations and will manage the Office of the General Counsel (OGC). “OGC’s work underpins the PCAOB’s ability to execute its mission to protect investors,” said PCAOB Chairman Demetrios (Jim) Logothetis. “We are grateful that George is joining us to fill this critical leadership role.” Mr. Kostolampros brings more than 25 years of experience advising organizations and senior leaders on complex legal, regulatory, governance, compliance, and risk-management matters. Prior to his appointment as General Counsel, Mr. Kostolampros was a partner at Venable LLP, where he advised public companies, boards of directors, audit committees, financial institutions, and senior executives on compliance, governance, and regulatory matters, and represented clients in internal investigations, government enforcement matters, regulatory proceedings, and complex litigation. Before returning to private practice, he served as Senior Counsel in the Division of Enforcement at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Kostolampros received his J.D., magna cum laude, from Widener University School of Law and his B.A. from Syracuse University. “I am honored to join the PCAOB, and I look forward to working with the talented OGC staff to advance the PCAOB’s priorities and mission,” said Mr. Kostolampros. Matt Goldin, who was named Acting General Counsel in January 2026, will resume his role as Deputy General Counsel, advising the Board on PCAOB programs and operations and assisting with OGC’s management. “Matt is a valued member of the OGC team, and we thank him for his distinguished service as Acting General Counsel,” said Chairman Logothetis.*****About the PCAOBThe PCAOB is a nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee the audits of public companies in order to protect investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. The PCAOB also oversees the audits of brokers and dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including compliance reports filed pursuant to federal securities laws. Related Topics About the PCAOB