Convenience Zero Hassles Zero Hassles We value your time as much as you do! Submit your service requests with zero hassles with our seamless user experience Easy Access ONE to All ONE to All One service request is now enough to add, modify information across all your Mutual Fund folios Comprehensive All Mutual Funds All Mutual Funds MFCentral is a unified services gateway for all your mutual funds Safe Highly Secure Highly Secure MFCentral is a highly secure platform with multiple layers of protection & data encryption to perform your MF transactions Introducing India’s First All-in-one Investment Management Platform to Transform the Mutual Fund Industry MFCentral is the investor services hub conceived by KFintech & CAMS powering a new era of collaboration by providing convenience to transact across all folios of an investor with unparalleled user experience. Leveraging best in class technology, MFCentral brings ease, convenience and speed to your service requirements across all the Mutual Funds. View your Mutual Fund portfolio like a PRO! Now view your portfolio across all the Mutual Funds on a single platform! Slice and dice your assets based on asset class, fund house, returns, scheme level holdings and performance. View Now Managing your service requests can't get any SIMPLER! Out with paper, in with digital. Explore a range of services such as bank mandate change to updating your personal contact details to change in IDCW and more. Get the change done across all your folios with just a single request! Get Started Quick Links Easy access for seamless experience Update PAN Details Apply for PAN Transmission Request Transfer of units MITRA What’s New Positive Pay System (PPS) for cheques Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had announced introduction of Positive Pay System in Sept. 2020 to introduce an additional layer security for cheques above of Rs.50,000. Banks have indicated enforcement of PPS from 1st September 2021. Investors are advised to take note about PPS requirement for their MF Investment cheque(s) to avoid rejection during clearing process. Realization Based NAV (as per SEBI Circular SEBI/HO/IMD/DF2/CIR/P/2020/253) Effective 1st February 2021, closing NAV of the day when fund is available for utilization shall be applicable for purchase of mutual fund units (including for systematic transactions registered prior to 1st February 2021 also) irrespective of scheme category or investment amount. Dividend plan/option in now called Income Distribution cum Capital Withdrawal Plan (IDCW) As per SEBI communication dated October 05, 2020 on ‘Review of Dividend option(s) / Plan(s) in case of Mutual Fund Schemes’, Dividend Option /Plan of all existing and proposed schemes of Mutual Funds will be named / renamed and all schemes having Dividend Option / Plan will reflect as IDCW in all statements and transaction description. Entire expanse of Mutual Fund universe