PCAOB Announces Inspections Modernization Council, Seeks Participation From Outside Experts Focused on modernizing PCAOB inspections, the new advisory body will leverage perspectives from a cross-section of capital markets experts; Deadline for applications is June 15, 2026 WASHINGTON, May 28, 2026 The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) announced today that it is forming a new advisory body, the Inspections Modernization Council, and is seeking outside parties with a stake in the PCAOB’s inspection activities to participate in its work. Since its creation more than 20 years ago, the PCAOB inspection program has played a significant role in enhancing audit quality. Today, opportunities exist to modernize PCAOB inspections so they remain relevant and resilient. Consultation with outside experts can facilitate such modernization. For the Inspections Modernization Council, the Board seeks participants with capital markets expertise and knowledge of the PCAOB’s inspection program, including investors, audit committee members, financial executives at public companies, academics, technologists, other regulators, and practitioners from public accounting firms of varying sizes. Applicants should have a demonstrated commitment to the interests of investors and the public. “Modernization of PCAOB inspections has the potential to bring improved audit quality and other significant benefits to investors and other stakeholders,” said PCAOB Chairman Demetrios (Jim) Logothetis. “The Inspections Modernization Council will help us shape the future of PCAOB inspections, and we invite individuals of the highest integrity to join us in this effort.” Application and other information can be found on the Inspections Modernization Council page. The application period will close on June 15, 2026. *****About the PCAOBThe PCAOB is a nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee the audits of public companies in order to protect investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. The PCAOB also oversees the audits of brokers and dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including compliance reports filed pursuant to federal securities laws. Related Topics About the PCAOB