1 | 2024 Inspection Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation (Headquartered in Bakersfield, California) February 27, 2025 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2025-042 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2024 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2024 Inspection and Historical Data by Inspection Year ................................... 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ........................... 8 Part I.C: Independence.................................................................................................................. 9 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control ........................................................................ 10 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-042, February 27, 2025 | 2 2024 INSPECTION In the 2024 inspection of Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of public companies. We selected for review one audit of an issuer with a fiscal year ending in 2023. For the issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2024 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not necessarily constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work or of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on thescope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-042, February 27, 2025 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2024 INSPECTION AND HISTORICAL DATA BY INSPECTION YEAR The following information provides an overview of our 2024 inspection as well as data from the previous inspection. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 20242022 Firm data Total issuer audit clients in which the firm was the principal auditor 1 1 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 1 1 1 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed1 1 Audits in which the firm was the principal auditor 1 1 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) 0 0 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies1 1 Percentage of audits with Part I.A deficiencies 100% 100% If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In many cases, the firm has performed remedial actions after the deficiency was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing additional audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR, or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. 1 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement) during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspection. Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-042, February 27, 2025 | 4 Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — it does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2024 inspection and the previous inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2024 2022 Audit area Audits reviewedAudit areaAudits reviewed Revenue and related accounts 1 Revenue and related accounts 1 Income taxes 1 Income taxes 1 Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-042, February 27, 2025 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. Part I.B discusses certain deficiencies, if any, that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. Part I.C discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules, if any, related to maintaining independence. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-042, February 27, 2025 | 6 Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work supporting the firm’s opinion on the issuer’s financial statements. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A) and industry sector. Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies, taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR None Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer A – Consumer Discretionary Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue and Related Accounts, Income Taxes, and Journal Entries. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue and Related Accounts, for which the firm identified a significant risk: Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-042, February 27, 2025 | 7 The firm designed a substantive procedure for testing four types of revenue as a dual-purpose test. The firm performed its substantive procedure using the sample size it determined for its control testing. This sample size was too small to provide sufficient appropriate audit evidence for the substantive procedure because the firm did not use the larger of the sample sizes that would otherwise have been designed for the two separate purposes. (AS 2315.44)In addition, for the selected revenue transactions, the firm did not perform procedures to test whether the issuer satisfied its performance obligations prior to the recognition of revenue, beyond obtaining certain issuer-produced reports and testing the timing of cash receipts. (AS 2301.08 and .11) The firm’s substantive procedures to test three of these types of revenue included analytical procedures. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not determine whether the expectations for the three types of revenue used in these analytical procedures were based on predictable relationships. (AS 2305.13 and .14) The threshold that the firm established to investigate differences for two types of revenue was too high to identify misstatements that could be material, either individually or in the aggregate. (AS 2305.20) The firm identified a difference in excess of the firm’s established threshold for the third type of revenue but did not evaluate this difference, beyond inquiry of management. (AS 2305.21) The firm used issuer-produced information to develop its expectation of one of these types of revenue but did not test, or in the alternative, test any controls over, the accuracy of this information. (AS 2305.16) The firm did not perform any substantive procedures to test a fifth type of revenue. (AS 2301.08 and .11) The firm did not perform substantive procedures to test the deferred revenue at year end. (AS 2301.08) With respect to Income Taxes, for which the firm identified a significant risk: The firm did not perform procedures to test certain permanent and temporary differences used in calculating the income tax provision, beyond vouching these amounts to issuer-prepared schedules. (AS 2301.08 and.11) With respect to Journal Entries, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The firm identified fraud criteria for purposes of identifying and selecting journal entries for testing. The firm did not perform procedures to determine whether any journal entries met one of its fraud criteria. In addition, the firm obtained a listing of journal entries that met certain of the criteria. The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to test the journal entries in this listing, because it limited its procedures to certain entries, without having an appropriate rationale for limiting its testing to those journal entries. (AS 2401.61) Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-042, February 27, 2025 | 8 Audits with a Single Deficiency None PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES This section of our report discusses certain deficiencies that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion. This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. In some cases, we assess the firm’s compliance with specific PCAOB standards or rules on other audits that were not reviewed and include any instances of non-compliance below. The deficiencies below are presented in numerical order based on the PCAOB standard or rule with which the firm did not comply. We identified the following deficiencies: In the audit reviewed, the firm, when testing journal entries for evidence of possible material misstatement due to fraud, did not perform sufficient procedures to determine whether the journal entry population from which it made its selections was complete. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1105, Audit Evidence. In the audit reviewed, the firm did not inquire of the audit committee about whether it was aware of matters relevant to the audit, including, but not limited to, violations or possible violations of laws or regulations. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In the audit reviewed, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to (1) all of the significant risks identified through its risk assessment procedures and (2) certain critical accounting estimates. In this instance, the firm was non- compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In the audit reviewed, the firm did not make all required inquiries of the audit committee and management about the risks of material misstatement, including fraud risks. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In the audit reviewed, the firm did not presume that there was a fraud risk involving improper revenue recognition and did not have an appropriate rationale for how this presumption was overcome. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In the audit reviewed, the engagement team performed procedures to determine whether or not matters were critical audit matters but, in performing those procedures, did not include certain matters that were communicated to the audit committee and that related to accounts or disclosures that were material to the financial statements. In this instance, the firm was non- Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-042, February 27, 2025 | 9 compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor's Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. This instance of non-compliance does not necessarily mean that other critical audit matters should have been communicated in the auditor’s report. In the audit reviewed, the firm’s communication of a critical audit matter in the audit report included language that was inconsistent with information in the firm’s audit documentation. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor's Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. PART I.C: INDEPENDENCE In the 2024 inspection, we did not identify, and the firm did not bring to our attention, any instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence.Although this section does not include any instances of potential non- compliance that we identified or the firm brought to our attention, there may be instances of non- compliance with SEC or PCAOB rules related to independence that were not identified through our procedures or the firm’s monitoring activities. While the firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance, the number, large or small, of firm-identified instances of potential non-compliance may be reflective of the size of the firm, including the number of associated firms; the design and effectiveness of the firm’s independence monitoring activities; and the size and/or complexity of the issuers it audits, including the number of affiliates of those issuers. Therefore, we caution against making any comparison of firm- identified instances of potential non-compliance across firms. Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-042, February 27, 2025 | 10 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. Brown Armstrong Accountancy Corporation, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-042, February 27, 2025 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the Board provided the firm an opportunity to review and comment on a draft of this report. The firm did not provide a written response. A-1 |