1 | 2023 Inspection RBSM LLP (Headquartered in McLean, Virginia) September 27, 2024 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2024-154 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2023 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2023 Inspection and Historical Data by Inspection Year ................................... 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ........................... 9 Part I.C: Independence................................................................................................................ 11 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control ........................................................................ 12 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 2 2023 INSPECTION In the 2023 inspection of RBSM LLP, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of public companies. We selected for review five audits of issuers with fiscal years generally ending in 2022. For each issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2023 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not necessarily constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work or of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on thescope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2023 INSPECTION AND HISTORICAL DATA BY INSPECTION YEAR The following information provides an overview of our 2023 inspection as well as data from the previous inspection. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 20232021 Firm data Total issuer audit clients in which the firm was the principal auditor 39 49 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 1 6 6 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed5 5 Audits in which the firm was the principal auditor 5 5 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) 0 0 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies5 4 Percentage of audits with Part I.A deficiencies 100% 80% If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In many cases, the firm has performed remedial actions after the deficiency was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing additional audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR, or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current 1 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement) during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspection. RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 4 inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — it does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2023 inspection and the previous inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2023 2021 Audit area Audits reviewedAudit areaAudits reviewed Revenue and related accounts 5 Revenue and related accounts 4 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Business combinations 2 Goodwill and intangible assets 1 Accruals and other liabilities 2 Inventory 1 Inventory 1 Digital assets 1 Long-lived assets 1 RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. Part I.B discusses certain deficiencies, if any, that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. Part I.C discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules, if any, related to maintaining independence. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 6 Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work supporting the firm’s opinion on the issuer’s financial statements. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A) and industry sector. Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies, taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR None Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer A – Information Technology Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue, Digital Assets, and Journal Entries. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk, and Digital Assets, for which the firm identified a significant risk: RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 7 The issuer earned revenue through cryptocurrency transactions and received digital assets in return. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate the relevance and/or reliability of external information it used to test revenue and digital assets. (AS 1105.04 and .06) The firm did not perform any procedures to establish that the issuer had control over the digital assets beyond viewing the digital asset wallets. (AS 2301.08 and .11) The firm did not perform any procedures to evaluate the presentation of digital assets as either current or non-current assets. (AS 2301.08 and .11) The firm did not evaluate the appropriateness of the issuer’s accounting for certain of the digital assets. (AS 2301.08 and .11) With respect to Journal Entries, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The firm identified fraud criteria for journal entries and obtained a listing of all journal entries that met the criteria. The firm did not perform sufficient substantive procedures to test those journal entries, because it limited its procedures to certain journal entries without having an appropriate rationale. (AS 2401.61) Issuer B – Industrials Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue and Inventory. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The issuer’s revenue included revenue recognized from contracts over time based on costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs to complete. The following deficiencies were identified: The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to test the accuracy and completeness of an issuer-prepared schedule it used to test this revenue because it limited its procedures to comparing it to a system-generated report. Further, the firm did not perform sufficient procedures to test the accuracy and completeness of the system-generated report because it limited its testing to one item. (AS 1105.10) The firm did not perform any procedures to test, or identify and test controls over, the accuracy and completeness of certain other issuer-prepared schedules it used to test this revenue. (AS 1105.10) RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 8 The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of the significant assumption related to estimated labor costs to complete, because it limited its procedures to inquiry and a comparison to a report that included costs incurred subsequent to year end. Further, the firm did not perform any procedures to test, or identify and test controls over, the accuracy and completeness of the report of costs incurred subsequent to year end. (AS 1105.10; AS 2501.16) With respect to Inventory, for which the firm identified a significant risk: The firm did not perform procedures to test the raw material costs in inventory at year end. (AS 2301.08 and .11) The firm did not perform procedures to test, or identify and test controls over, the accuracy and completeness of certain system-generated reports that it used to substantively test certain inventory. (AS 1105.10) Issuer C – Communication Services Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk. Description of the deficiencies identified The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate whether the issuer’s accounting for certain revenue as the principal rather than as an agent was appropriate, beyond obtaining an issuer-prepared analysis. (AS 2301.08 and .13) The firm did not perform sufficient procedures to test whether the issuer satisfied its performance obligations for a second type of revenue because it limited its procedures to (1) obtaining cash receipts and sales invoices and (2) sending negative confirmations to a respondent who was a related party without considering the respondent’s objectivity and freedom from bias and whether the response that was received by the firm provided meaningful and appropriate evidence. (AS 2301.08 and .13; AS 2310.26 and .27) The firm selected a sample of transactions to test a third type of revenue. For certain of the sampled transactions, the firm did not perform procedures to test the quantity used to recognize revenue, beyond obtaining a system-generated report without testing, or identifying and testing controls over, the accuracy and completeness of the report. (AS 1105.10; AS 2301.08 and .13) Issuer D – Communication Services Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk. RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 9 Description of the deficiencies identified The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate the relevance and reliability of certain external information used in its substantive procedures to test certain revenue. (AS 1105.04 and .06) In addition, the firm performed a substantive analytical procedure to test this revenue. The firm developed its expectations for revenue using external data. The firm did not evaluate whether this data was sufficiently reliable for purposes of achieving its audit objective. (AS 2305.16) Audits with a Single Deficiency Issuer E – Communication Services Type of audit and related area affected In our review, we identified a deficiency in the financial statement audit related to Revenue. Description of the deficiency identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The firm did not perform any procedures to evaluate the relevance and reliability of certain external data it used to test certain revenue. (AS 1105.04 and .06) PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES This section of our report discusses certain deficiencies that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. As a result, the areas below were not necessarily reviewed on every audit. In some cases, we assess the firm’s compliance with specific PCAOB standards or rules on other audits that were not reviewed and include any instances of non- compliance below. The deficiencies below are presented in numerical order based on the PCAOB standard or rule with which the firm did not comply. We identified the following deficiencies:  In one of five audits reviewed, the firm did not include all relevant work papers in the final set of audit documentation it was required to assemble. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1215, Audit Documentation. RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 10  In two of five audits reviewed, the firm did not communicate to the audit committee all of the significant risks identified through its risk assessment procedures. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees.  In two of five audits reviewed, the firm did not perform procedures to determine whether all individuals who participated in the audit were in compliance with independence requirements. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2101, Audit Planning. In one of five audits reviewed, the firm, when testing journal entries for evidence of possible material misstatement due to fraud, did not have an appropriate rationale for limiting its testing of entries it identified as having certain fraud risk characteristics to certain entries. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2401, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. In one of five audits reviewed, the firm did not perform a retrospective review of an accounting estimate affecting significant accounts and disclosures to determine whether management’s judgments and assumptions related to this estimate indicated possible bias on the part of management. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2401, Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit. In four of five audits reviewed, the engagement team performed procedures to determine whether or not matters were critical audit matters but, in performing those procedures, did not include certain matters that were communicated, or required to be communicated, to the audit committee and that related to accounts or disclosures that were material to the financial statements. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. These instances of non-compliance do not necessarily mean that other critical audit matters should have been communicated in the auditor’s report. In one of five audits reviewed, the firm’s communication of a critical audit matter in the audit report included language that was inconsistent with information in the firm’s audit documentation. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. In one audit, the firm’s communication of critical audit matters in the audit report did not describe for a matter the principal considerations that led the firm to determine that the matter was a critical audit matter. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. In one audit, the firm’s audit report did not include the section title “Opinion on the Financial Statements.” In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. In one audit, the firm did not document the computation of total audit hours and the method used to estimate hours incurred by other auditors. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 11 PART I.C: INDEPENDENCE In the 2023 inspection, we did not identify, and the firm did not bring to our attention, any instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence.Although this section does not include any instances of potential non- compliance that we identified or the firm brought to our attention, there may be instances of non- compliance with SEC or PCAOB rules related to independence that were not identified through our procedures or the firm’s monitoring activities. While the firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance, the number, large or small, of firm-identified instances of potential non-compliance may be reflective of the size of the firm, including the number of associated firms; the design and effectiveness of the firm’s independence monitoring activities; and the size and/or complexity of the issuers it audits, including the number of affiliates of those issuers. Therefore, we caution against making any comparison of firm- identified instances of potential non-compliance across firms. RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | 12 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the firm provided a written response to a draft of this report. Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act and PCAOB Rule 4007(b), the firm’s response, excluding any portion granted confidential treatment, is attached hereto and made part of this final inspection report. The Board does not make public any of a firm’s comments that address a nonpublic portion of the report unless a firm specifically requests otherwise. In some cases, the result may be that none of a firm’s response is made publicly available. In addition, pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(b), if a firm requests, and the Board grants, confidential treatment for any of the firm’s comments on a draft report, the Board does not include those comments in the final report. The Board routinely grants confidential treatment, if requested, for any portion of a firm’s response that addresses any point in the draft that the Board omits from, or any inaccurate statement in the draft that the Board corrects in, the final report. RBSM LLP, PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-154, September 27, 2024 | A-2 A-1 |