↓ Skip to Main Content Click Here For Best Books On Taxation & Law. Upto 60% Off On Select Titles. Free Shipping & Pay On Delivery! Click Here To Subscribe To Our Free Newsletter This section is now closed. Click here for new judgements (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); › › DCIT vs. Pepsi Foods Ltd (Supreme Court) DCIT vs. Pepsi Foods Ltd (Supreme Court) Posted on April 7, 2021 by editor COURT: Supreme Court CORAM: B. R. Gavai J, Hrishikesh Roy J, Rohinton Fali Nariman J. SECTION(S): 254(2A) GENRE: Domestic Tax CATCH WORDS: stay of demand COUNSEL: Ajay Vohra, Deepak Chopra, Himanshu S. Sinha, Sachit Jolly, Vikramjit Banerjee ASG DATE: April 6, 2021 (Date of pronouncement) DATE: April 7, 2021 (Date of publication) AY: - FILE: Click here to download the file in pdf format CITATION: S. 254(2A) Stay by ITAT: Since the object of the 3rd proviso to s. 254(2A) is the automatic vacation of a stay that has been granted on the completion of 365 days, whether or not the assessee is responsible for the delay caused in hearing the appeal, such object being itself discriminatory, is liable to be struck down as violating Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Also, the said proviso would result in the automatic vacation of a stay upon the expiry of 365 days even if the Appellate Tribunal could not take up the appeal in time for no fault of the assessee. Further, vacation of stay in favour of the revenue would ensue even if the revenue is itself responsible for the delay in hearing the appeal. In this sense, the said proviso is also manifestly arbitrary being a provision which is capricious, irrational and disproportionate so far as the assessee is concerned. Consequently, the third proviso to s. 254(2A) will now be read without the word “even” and the words “is not” after the words “delay in disposing of the appeal”. Any order of stay shall stand vacated after the expiry of the period or periods mentioned in the Section only if the delay in disposing of the appeal is attributable to the assessee. (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); REPORTABLE IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1106 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.30284 OF 2015] DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX & ANR. ..APPELLANTS VERSUS M/S. PEPSI FOODS LTD. ..RESPONDENT (NOW PEPSICO INDIA HOLDINGS PVT. LTD.) WITH CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1127 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.32081 OF 2017] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1107 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.34987 OF 2015] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1108 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.31311 OF 2015] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1109 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.31295 OF 2015] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1110 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.30283 OF 2015] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1111 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.31297 OF 2015] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1112 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.34142 OF 2016] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1113 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.3138 OF 2017] 1 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1114 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.3136 OF 2017] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1115 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO. OF 2021] CC NO.8612 OF 2017 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1116 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO. OF 2021] CC NO.8215 OF 2017 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1117 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.19322 OF 2017] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1118 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO. OF 2021] CC NO.8924 OF 2017 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1119 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO. OF 2021] DIARY NO.15229 OF 2017 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1120 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.720 OF 2018] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1121 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.27498 OF 2017] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1122 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.30215 OF 2017] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1123 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.722 OF 2018] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1124 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.31873 OF 2017] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1126 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.31720 OF 2017] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1125 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.32236 OF 2017] 2 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1128 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.33218 OF 2017] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1129 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.12200 OF 2018] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1130 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.4186 OF 2018] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1131 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.12202 OF 2018] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1132 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.12204 OF 2018] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1133 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO. OF 2021] DIARY NO.4363 OF 2018 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1134 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO. OF 2021] DIARY NO.6113 OF 2018 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1135 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.16889 OF 2018] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1136 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.16245 OF 2018] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1137 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.26053 OF 2018] CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1138 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO. OF 2021] DIARY NO.22819 OF 2018 CIVIL APPEAL NO. 1139 OF 2021 [ARISING OUT OF SLP (CIVIL) NO.10941 OF 2019] 3 J U D G M E N T R.F. Nariman, J 1. Delay condoned. Leave granted. 2. The appeals before us raise an important question as to the constitutional validity of the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as “Income Tax Act”). 3. The facts in Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax & Anr. v. M/s Pepsi Foods Ltd. [now Pepsico India Holdings Pvt. Ltd] (Civil Appeal arising out of Special Leave Petition (C) No.30284 of 2015) may be set out as being illustrative of the facts in all the appeals before us. The Respondent-assessee is an Indian company incorporated on 24.02.1989 and is engaged in the business of manufacture and sale of concentrates, fruit juices, processing of rice and trading of goods for exports. The assessee is a group company of the multi-national Pepsico Inc., a company incorporated and registered in the United States of America. The assessee-company merged with Pepsico India Holdings Pvt. Ltd. w.e.f. 01.04.2010, in terms of a scheme of arrangement duly approved by the Hon’ble Punjab and Haryana High Court. On 30.09.2008, a return of income was filed for the assessment year 2008-2009 declaring a total income of INR 92,54,89,822. A final assessment order was passed on 19.10.2012 4 which was adverse to the assessee. Aggrieved by the aforesaid order, the assessee filed an appeal before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (hereinafter referred to as “Tribunal”) on 29.04.2013. On 31.05.2013, a stay of the operation of the order of the assessing officer was granted by the Tribunal for a period of six months. This stay was extended till 08.01.2014 and continued being extended until 28.05.2014. Since the period of 365 days as provided in Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act was to end on 30.05.2014 beyond which no further extension could be granted, the assessee, apprehending coercive action from the Revenue, filed a writ petition before the Delhi High Court on 21.05.2014 challenging the constitutional validity of the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act. By a judgment dated 19.05.2015, the Delhi High Court struck down that part of the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act which did not permit the extension of a stay order beyond 365 days even if the assessee was not responsible for delay in hearing the appeal. It is this judgment and several other judgments from various High Courts that have been challenged by the revenue in these appeals. 4. Shri Vikramjit Banerjee, learned ASG, assailed the impugned judgment of the Delhi High Court and other judgments following it, arguing that 5 there is no right to stay of a judgment in an appellate proceeding as such stay is dependent upon the discretion of the Appellate Court. The discretion having been exercised once would not mean that automatic extensions of the same could be granted despite a reasonable period having gone-by. He also argued that the discretionary remedy of a stay is part and parcel of the right to appeal which itself is a statutory right, and can be taken away by the legislature. He then argued that Article 14 of the Constitution of India is not to be applied mechanically as a far greater freedom in the joints is given qua tax legislation and so long as the State has laid down a valid policy which it has followed without singling out anybody, no discrimination can possibly ensue. He also argued that equitable considerations and arguments based on hardship are out of place when it comes to tax statutes, which must be read literally. For all these propositions, he cited case law which will be dealt with later in this judgment. 5. Shri Ajay Vohra, learned Senior Advocate, Shri Himanshu S. Sinha, Shri Deepak Chopra and Shri Sachit Jolly, learned Advocates, appearing for the assessees, countered each of the submissions of Shri Banerjee, learned ASG. They relied strongly upon the reasoning of the impugned judgment of the Delhi High Court and argued that once discretionary relief has been granted based upon a strong prima 6 facie case, balance of convenience, etc. it would be wholly arbitrary and discriminatory that such relief be vacated automatically without reference to whether it is the assessee who is prolonging the appellate proceedings. Once there is a vested right of appeal, there is a right to obtain a stay which, once obtained, cannot be vacated without dilatory tactics on the part of the Appellant being found against the Appellant. They cited judgments of this Court to show that discriminatory taxation has been struck down under Article 14 of the Constitution of India. They also argued that the State cannot take shelter under a “policy”, if the policy or object laid down in the statutory provision is itself arbitrary or discriminatory. They also cited judgments to show that even in interpreting a tax statute, though equitable considerations are not to be given effect, yet they are not wholly irrelevant when the constitutional validity of the provision is itself challenged. 6. The genesis of the stay provision contained in Section 254 of the Income Tax Act is in the celebrated judgment of this Court in Income Tax Officer v. M.K. Mohammed Kunhi (1969) 2 SCR 65. In this judgment, Section 254 of the Income Tax Act, as originally enacted, came up for consideration before this Court. After setting out Section 254(1), this Court referred to Sutherland, Statutory Construction (3rd Edn., Arts. 5401 and 5402), and then held that the power which has 7 been conferred by the said Section on the Appellate Tribunal with the widest possible amplitude must carry with it, by necessary implication, all powers incidental and necessary to make the exercise of such power fully effective. The Court held: “Section 255(5) of the Act does empower the Appellate Tribunal to regulate its own procedure, but it is very doubtful if the power of stay can be spelt out from that provision. In our opinion the Appellate Tribunal must be held to have the power to grant stay as incidental or ancillary to its appellate jurisdiction. This is particularly so when Section 220(6) deals expressly with a situation when an appeal is pending before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner, but the Act is silent in that behalf when an appeal is pending before the Appellate Tribunal. It could well be said that when Section 254 confers appellate jurisdiction, it impliedly grants the power of doing all such acts, or employing such means, as are essentially necessary to its execution and that the statutory power carries with it the duty in proper cases to make such orders for staying proceedings as will prevent the appeal if successful from being rendered nugatory. A certain apprehension may legitimately arise in the minds of the authorities administering the Act that if the Appellate Tribunals proceed to stay recovery of taxes or penalties payable by or imposed on the assessees as a matter of course the revenue will be put to great loss because of the inordinate delay in the disposal of appeals by the Appellate Tribunals. It is needless to point out that the power of stay by the Tribunal is not likely to be exercised in a routine way or as a matter of course in view of the special nature of taxation and revenue laws. It wilt only be when a strong prima facie case is made out that the Tribunal will consider whether to stay the recovery proceedings and on what conditions and the stay will be granted in most deserving and appropriate cases where the Tribunal is 8 satisfied that the entire purpose of the appeal will be frustrated or rendered nugatory by allowing the recovery proceedings to continue during the pendency of the appeal.” [at page 72] Importantly, this Court recognised that orders of stay prevent the appeal, if ultimately successful, from being rendered nugatory or futile, and are granted only in deserving and appropriate cases. 7. The judgment of this Court was followed for many decades, the Appellate Tribunal granting stay without being constrained by any time limit. However, by Finance Act, 2001 (w.e.f. 01/06/2001), two provisos were introduced to Section 254(2A) as follows: “254. Orders of Appellate Tribunal. xxx xxx xxx (2A) In every appeal, the Appellate Tribunal, where it is possible, may hear and decide such appeal within a period of four years from the end of the financial year in which such appeal is filed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 253: Provided that where an order of stay is made in any proceedings relating to an appeal filed under subsection (1) of section 253, the Appellant Tribunal shall dispose of the appeal within a period of one hundred and eighty days from the date of such order: Provided further that if such appeal is not so disposed of within the period specified in the first proviso, the stay order shall stand vacated after the expiry of the said period.” 8. Realising that a hard and fast provision which is directory so far as the disposal of appeal is concerned, but mandatory so far as vacation of 9 the stay order is concerned, would lead to great hardship, the legislature stepped in again and amended Section 254(2A) vide Finance Act, 2007 (w.e.f. 01/06/2007) as follows: “254. Orders of Appellate Tribunal. xxx xxx xxx (2A) In every appeal, the Appellate Tribunal, where it is possible, may hear and decide such appeal within a period of four years from the end of the financial year in which such appeal is filed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 253: Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may, after considering the merits of the application made by the assessee, pass an order of stay in any proceedings relating to an appeal filed under sub-section (1) of section 253, for a period not exceeding one hundred and eighty days from the date of such order and the Appellate Tribunal shall dispose of the appeal within the said period of stay specified in that order: Provided further that where such appeal is not so disposed of within the said period of stay as specified in the order of stay, the Appellate Tribunal may, on an application made in this behalf by the assessee and on being satisfied that the delay in disposing of the appeal is not attributable to the assessee, extend the period of stay, or pass an order of stay for a further period or periods as it thinks fit; so, however, that the aggregate of the period originally allowed and the period or periods so extended or allowed shall not, in any case, exceed three hundred and sixty-five days and the Appellate Tribunal shall dispose of the appeal within the period or periods of stay so extended or allowed: Provided also that if such appeal is not so disposed of within the period allowed under the first proviso or the period or periods extended or allowed under the second proviso, the order of stay shall stand vacated after the expiry of such period or periods.” 10 9. The aforementioned provision (as amended by Finance Act, 2007) became the subject matter of challenge before the Bombay High Court in Narang Overseas Pvt. Ltd. v. ITAT (2007) 295 ITR 22. The Bombay High Court, after referring to the judgment in Mohammed Kunhi (supra), then held: “ Did the section as it stood before the Finance Act of 2007, and after the Finance Act of 2007, exclude the power of the Tribunal to grant interim relief after the period provided in the proviso. Was it the intendement of Parliament that the Tribunal even in a case where the assessee was not at fault should be denuded of its incidental power to continue the interim relief granted and if so what mischief was it seeking to avoid. The mischief if and at all was the long delay in disposing of proceedings where interim relief had been obtained by the Assessee. The second proviso as it earlier stood, in a case when in an appeal interim relief was granted, if the appeal was not disposed off within 180 days provided that the stay shall stand vacated. The proviso as it stood could really have not have stood the test of non-arbitrariness as it would result in an appeal being defeated even if the assessee was not at fault, as in the meantime the revenue could proceed against the assets of the assessee. The proviso as introduced by the Finance Act, 2007 was to an extent to avoid the mischief of it being rendered unconstitutional. Once an appeal is provided, it cannot be rendered nugatory in cases were the assessee was not at fault. The amendment of 2007 conferred the power to extend the period of interim relief to 360 days. Parliament clearly intended that such appeals should be disposed of at the earliest. If that be the object the mischief which was sought to be avoided was the nondisposal of the appeal during the period the interim relief was in operation. By extending the period Parliament took note of laws delay. The object was not 11 to defeat the vested right of Appeal in an assessee, whose appeal could not be disposed off not on account of any omission or failure on his part, but either the failure of the Tribunal or acts of revenue resulting in non-disposal of the appeal within the extended period as provided. Can it then be said that the intention of Parliament by restricting the period of stay or interim relief upto 360 days had the effect of excluding by necessary intendment the power of the Tribunal to continue the interim relief. Would not reading the power not to continue the power to continue interim relief in cases not attributable to the acts of the assessee result in holding that such a provision would be unreasonable. Could Parliament have intended to confer the remedy of an Appeal by denying the incidental power of the Tribunal to do justice. In our opinion for reasons already discussed it would not be possible to so read it. It would not be possible on the one hand to hold that there is a vested right of an appeal and on the other hand to hold that there is no power to continue the grant of interim relief for no fault of the assessee by divesting the incidental power of the Tribunal to continue the interim relief. Such a reading would result in such an exercise being rendered unreasonable and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. Courts must, therefore, construe and/or give a construction consistent with the constitutional mandate and principle to avoid a provision being rendered unconstitutional.” [at page 30-31] The High Court then referred to the judgment of this Court in Commissioner of Customs & Central Excise v. Kumar Cotton Mills (2005) 13 SCC 296, which dealt with a similar provision contained in the Central Excise Act, 1944, namely, Section 35C(2A), and then held: “ We are of the respectful view that the law as enunciated in Kumar Cotton Mills Pvt. Ltd. (supra) should also apply to the construction of the third proviso as introduced in section 254(2A) by the 12 Finance Act, 2007. The power to grant stay or interim relief being inherent or incidental is not defeated by the provisos to the sub-section. The third proviso has to be read as a limitation on the power of the Tribunal to continue interim relief in case where the hearing of the Appeal has been delayed for acts attributable to the assessee. It cannot mean that a construction be given that the power to grant interim relief is denuded even if the acts attributable are not of the assessee but of the revenue or of the Tribunal itself. The power of the Tribunal, therefore, to continue interim relief is not overridden by the language of the third proviso to section 254(2A). This would be in consonance with the view taken in Kumar Cotton Mills Pvt. Ltd. (supra). There would be power in the Tribunal to extend the period of stay on good cause being shown and on the Tribunal being satisfied that the matter could not be heard and disposed of for reasons not attributable to the assessee.” [at page 32] 10.Close on the heels of this judgment, Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act was again amended, this time by the Finance Act, 2008 (w.e.f. 01/10/2008). This amendment reads as follows: “254. Orders of Appellate Tribunal. xxx xxx xxx (2A) In every appeal, the Appellate Tribunal, where it is possible, may hear and decide such appeal within a period of four years from the end of the financial year in which such appeal is filed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 253: Provided that the Appellate Tribunal may, after considering the merits of the application made by the assessee, pass an order of stay in any proceedings relating to an appeal filed under sub-section (1) of section 253, for a period not exceeding one hundred and eighty days from the date of such order and the 13 Appellate Tribunal shall dispose of the appeal within the said period of stay specified in that order: Provided further that where such appeal is not so disposed of within the said period of stay as specified in the order of stay, the Appellate Tribunal may, on an application made in this behalf by the assessee and on being satisfied that the delay in disposing of the appeal is not attributable to the assessee, extend the period of stay, or pass an order of stay for a further period or periods as it thinks fit; so, however, that the aggregate of the period originally allowed and the period or periods so extended or allowed shall not, in any case, exceed three hundred and sixty-five days and the Appellate Tribunal shall dispose of the appeal within the period or periods of stay so extended or allowed: Provided also that if such appeal is not so disposed of within the period allowed under the first proviso or the period or periods extended or allowed under the second proviso, which shall not, in any case, exceed three hundred and sixty-five days, the order of stay shall stand vacated after the expiry of such period or periods, even if the delay in disposing of the appeal is not attributable to the assessee.” 11.The amended provision came to be considered by a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court in Commissioner of Income Tax v. M/s Maruti Suzuki (India) Ltd. (2014) 362 ITR 215.The constitutional validity of the said provision had not been challenged, as a result of which the Delhi High Court interpreted the third proviso to Section 254(2A) as follows: “In view of the aforesaid discussion, we have reached the following conclusion:- (i) In view of the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Act substituted by Finance Act, 2008 with effect 14 from 1st October, 2008, tribunal cannot extend stay beyond the period of 365 days from the date of first order of stay. (ii) In case default and delay is due to lapse on the part of the Revenue, the tribunal is at liberty to conclude hearing and decide the appeal, if there is likelihood that the third proviso to Section 254(2A) would come into operation. (iii) Third proviso to Section 254(2A) does not bar or prohibit the Revenue or departmental representative from making a statement that they would not take coercive steps to recover the impugned demand and on such statement being made, it will be open to the tribunal to adjourn the matter at the request of the Revenue. (iv) An assessee can file a writ petition in the High Court pleading and asking for stay and the High Court has power and jurisdiction to grant stay and issue directions to the tribunal as may be required. Section 254(2A) does not prohibit/bar the High Court from issuing appropriate directions, including granting stay of recovery. We have not examined the constitutional validity of the provisos to Section 254(2A) of the Act and the issue is left open.” [at page 231] 12.Close upon the heels of the judgment in Maruti Suzuki (supra), the Gujarat High Court in DCIT v. Vodafone Essar Gujarat Ltd. (2015) 376 ITR 23, while disagreeing with the view taken in Maruti Suzuki (supra), interpreted the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act as follows: “ Applying the decision of the Division Bench of this court in the case of Small Industries Development Bank of India (supra) to the facts of the case on hand, more particularly while considering the powers of the 15 Tribunal under section 254(2A) of the Act, it is observed and held that by section 254(2A) of the Act, it cannot be inferred a legislative intent to curtail/withdraw the powers of the Appellate Tribunal to extend stay of demand beyond the period of 365 days. However, the aforesaid extension of stay beyond the period of total 365 days from the date of grant of initial stay would always be subject to the subjective satisfaction by the learned Appellate Tribunal and on an application made by the assessee-appellant to extend stay and on being satisfied that the delay in disposing of the appeal within a period of 365 days from the date of grant of initial stay is not attributable to the appellant-assessee. For that purpose, on expiry of every 180 days, the appellant-assessee is required to make an application to extend stay granted earlier and satisfy the learned Appellate Tribunal that the delay in not disposing of the appeal is not attributable to him/it and the learned Appellate Tribunal is required to review the matter after every 180 days and while disposing of such application of extension of stay, the learned Appellate Tribunal is required to pass a speaking order after having satisfied that the assessee-appellant has not indulged into any delay tactics and that the delay in disposing of the appeal within stipulated time is not attributable to the assessee-appellant. However, at the same time, it may not be construed that widest powers are given to the Appellate Tribunal to extend the stay indefinitely and that the Appellate Tribunal is not required to dispose of the appeals at the earliest. The object and purpose of section 35C(2A) of the Act particularly one of the object and purpose is to see that in a case where stay has been granted by the learned Appellate Tribunal, the learned Appellate Tribunal is required to dispose of the appeal within total period of 365 days, as ultimately revenue has not to suffer and all efforts should be made by the learned Appellate Tribunal to dispose of such appeals in which stay has been granted as far as possible within total period of 365 days from the date of grant of initial stay and the Appellate Tribunal shall grant priority to such appeals over appeals in which no stay is granted. For that even the Appellate Tribunal and/or registrar of the Appellate 16 Tribunal is required to maintain separate register of the appeals in which stay has been granted fully and/or partially and the appeals in which no stay has been granted. [at page 42-43] xxx xxx xxx With greatest respect to the Delhi High Court, if the aforesaid procedure is adopted, either it would lead to multiplicity of proceedings before the High Court and/or even granting the stay of demand by the Department itself. We are of the opinion that instead if the aforesaid procedure is followed, it would meet the ends of justice and it may not increase the litigation either before the High Court and/or appropriate forum and the purpose and object of section 254(2A) of the Act is achieved.” [at page 45-46] 13.The impugned judgment in M/s Pepsi Foods Ltd. v. ACIT (2015) 376 ITR 87 dealt with the challenge to the constitutional validity of the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act, as amended by the Finance Act, 2008. A Division Bench of the Delhi High Court, after setting out the Bombay High Court judgment in Narang Overseas (supra), then referred to the previous judgment of the Delhi High Court in Maruti Suzuki (supra) and held: “12. From the above extract, it is evident that the Division Bench was not called upon and did not examine the constitutional validity of the provisos to Section 254(2A) of the said Act and left the issue open. It is only on a plain reading of the provisos, as they existed, that the Division Bench came to the conclusion that the Tribunal had no power to extend stay beyond a period of 365 days from the date of the first order of stay but that an assessee could file a writ petition in the High Court asking for stay even beyond the said period of 365 days and the High Court had the power and jurisdiction to grant stay and issue directions to the 17 Tribunal and that Section 254(2A) did not prohibit/bar the High Court from issuing appropriate directions, including grant of stay of recovery. A similar view was taken by the Bombay High Court in Jethmal Faujimal Soni (supra). But that decision was also rendered on a plain meaning of the provisos, as they stood. There was no challenge to the constitutional validity of the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the said Act after the amendment introduced by the Finance Act, 2008. No decision of any High Court has been brought to our notice by the learned counsel for the parties, wherein the constitutional validity of the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the said Act has been examined.” [at page 96-97] After referring to this Court’s judgment in Mardia Chemicals Ltd. v. Union of India (2004) 4 SCC 311 and the judgment of a Division Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in PML Industries Ltd. v. CCE (2013) SCC OnLine P&H 4440, which dealt with a similar provision contained in Section 35C (2A) of the Central Excise Act,1944, the Court held: “23. Keeping in mind the principles set out by the Supreme Court in Dr Subramanian Swamy (supra), we need to examine whether the present challenge to the validity of the third proviso to Section 254(2A) can be sustained. This is not a case of excessive delegation of powers and, therefore, we need not bother about the second dimension of Article 14 in its application to legislation. We are here concerned with the question of discrimination, based on an impermissible or invalid classification. It is abundantly clear that the power granted to the Tribunal to hear and entertain an appeal and to pass orders would include the ancillary power of the Tribunal to grant a stay. Of course, the exercise of that power can be subjected to certain conditions. In 18 the present case, we find that there are several conditions which have been stipulated. First of all, as per the first proviso to Section 254(2A), a stay order could be passed for a period not exceeding 180 days and the Tribunal should dispose of the appeal within that period. The second proviso stipulates that in case the appeal is not disposed of within the period of 180 days, if the delay in disposing of the appeal is not attributable to the assessee, the Tribunal has the power to extend the stay for a period not exceeding 365 days in aggregate. Once again, the Tribunal is directed to dispose of the appeal within the said period of stay. The third proviso, as it stands today, stipulates that if the appeal is not disposed of within the period of 365 days, then the order of stay shall stand vacated, even if the delay in disposing of the appeal is not attributable to the assessee. While it could be argued that the condition that the stay order could be extended beyond a period of 180 days only if the delay in disposing of the appeal was not attributable to the assessee was a reasonable condition on the power of the Tribunal to the grant an order of stay, it can, by no stretch of imagination, be argued that where the assessee is not responsible for the delay in the disposal of the appeal, yet the Tribunal has no power to extend the stay beyond the period of 365 days. The intention of the legislature, which has been made explicit by insertion of the words – ‘even if the delay in disposing of the appeal is not attributable to the assessee’- renders the right of appeal granted to the assessee by the statute to be illusory for no fault on the part of the assessee. The stay, which was available to him prior to the 365 days having passed, is snatched away simply because the Tribunal has, for whatever reason, not attributable to the assessee, been unable to dispose of the appeal. Take the case of delay being caused in the disposal of the appeal on the part of the revenue. Even in that case, the stay would stand vacated on the expiry of 365 days. This is despite the fact that the stay was granted by the Tribunal, in the first instance, upon considering the prima facie merits of the case through a reasoned order. 19 24. Furthermore, the petitioners are correct in their submission that unequals have been treated equally. Assessees who, after having obtained stay orders and by their conduct delay the appeal proceedings, have been treated in the same manner in which assessees, who have not, in any way, delayed the proceedings in the appeal. The two classes of assessees are distinct and cannot be clubbed together. This clubbing together has led to hostile discrimination against the assessees to whom the delay is not attributable. It is for this reason that we find that the insertion of the expression – ‘even if the delay in disposing of the appeal is not attributable to the assessee’- by virtue of the Finance Act, 2008, violates the non-discrimination clause of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. The object that appeals should be heard expeditiously and that assesses should not misuse the stay orders granted in their favour by adopting delaying tactics is not at all achieved by the provision as it stands. On the contrary, the clubbing together of ‘well behaved’ assesses and those who cause delay in the appeal proceedings is itself violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and has no nexus or connection with the object sought to be achieved. The said expression introduced by the Finance Act, 2008 is, therefore, struck down as being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. This would revert us to the position of law as interpreted by the Bombay High Court in Narang Overseas (supra), with which we are in full agreement. Consequently, we hold that, where the delay in disposing of the appeal is not attributable to the assessee, the Tribunal has the power to grant extension of stay beyond 365 days in deserving cases. The writ petitions are allowed as above.” [at page 107-109] 14. It is settled law that challenges to tax statutes made under Article 14 of the Constitution of India can be on grounds relatable to discrimination as well as grounds relatable to manifest arbitrariness. These grounds may be procedural or substantive in nature. Thus, in Suraj Mall Mohta 20 and Co. v. A.V. Visvanatha Sastri (1955) 1 SCR 448, this Court struck down Section 5(4) of the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 on the ground that the procedure prescribed was substantially more prejudicial and more drastic to the assessee than the procedure contained in the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922. Section 5(4) of the aforesaid Act was thus struck down as a piece of discriminatory legislation offending against the provisions of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 15. Instances of taxation statutes being struck down on substantive grounds which had alleged discrimination can be found in the 5-Judge decision of this Court in Kunnathat Thatehunni Moopil Nair v. State of Kerala (1961) 3 SCR 77, in which a uniform tax called “basic tax” levied under the provisions of the Travancore Cochin Land Tax Act, 1955 was held to be discriminatory as it treated unequals equally. The Court held: “Ordinarily, a tax on land or land revenue is assessed on the actual or the potential productivity of the land sought to be taxed. In other words, the tax has reference to the income actually made, or which could have been made, with due diligence, and, therefore, is levied with due regard to the incidence of the taxation. Under the Act in question we shall take a hypothetical case of a number of persons owning and possessing the same area of land. One makes nothing out of the land, because it is arid desert. The second one does not make any income, but could raise some crop after a disproportionately large investment of labour and 21 capital. A third one, in due course of husbandry, is making the land yield just enough to pay for the incidental expenses and labour charges besides land tax or revenue. The fourth is making large profits, because the land is very fertile and capable of yielding good crops. Under the Act, it is manifest that the fourth category, in our illustration, would easily be able to bear the burden of the tax. The third one may be able to bear the tax. The first and the second one will have to pay from their own pockets, if they could afford the tax. If they cannot afford the tax, the property is liable to be sold, in due process of law, for realisation of the public demand. It is clear, therefore, that inequality is writ large on the Act and is inherent in the very provisions of the taxing section. It is also clear that there is no attempt at classification in the provisions of the Act. Hence, no more need be said as to what could have been the basis for a valid classification. It is one of those cases where the lack of classification creates inequality. It is, therefore, clearly hit by the prohibition to deny equality before the law contained in Article 14 of the Constitution.” [at page 91-92] Likewise, in Union of India v. A. Sanyasi Rao (1996) 3 SCC 465, this Court struck down Section 44-AC of the Income Tax Act as being discriminatory when only particular trades were singled out for discriminatory treatment, reliefs under Sections 28 to 43-C of the Income Tax Act being denied only to such trades. This was done as the denial of such relief had no nexus to the object sought to be achieved by the legislation and resulted in unfairness, arbitrariness and denial of equality of treatment (see paragraph 22). 22 16.The other facet of Article 14 has been recently resurrected by a 5- Judge Bench judgment in Shayara Bano v. Union of India (2017) 9 SCC 1 as follows: “101. It will be noticed that a Constitution Bench of this Court in Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India [Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. Union of India, (1985) 1 SCC 641 : 1985 SCC (Tax) 121] stated that it was settled law that subordinate legislation can be challenged on any of the grounds available for challenge against plenary legislation. This being the case, there is no rational distinction between the two types of legislation when it comes to this ground of challenge under Article 14. The test of manifest arbitrariness, therefore, as laid down in the aforesaid judgments would apply to invalidate legislation as well as subordinate legislation under Article 14. Manifest arbitrariness, therefore, must be something done by the legislature capriciously, irrationally and/or without adequate determining principle. Also, when something is done which is excessive and disproportionate, such legislation would be manifestly arbitrary. We are, therefore, of the view that arbitrariness in the sense of manifest arbitrariness as pointed out by us above would apply to negate legislation as well under Article 14.” 17. Judged by both these parameters, there can be no doubt that the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act, introduced by the Finance Act, 2008, would be both arbitrary and discriminatory and, therefore, liable to be struck down as offending Article 14 of the Constitution of India. First and foremost, as has correctly been held in the impugned judgment, unequals are treated equally in that no differentiation is made by the third proviso between the assessees who 23 are responsible for delaying the proceedings and assessees who are not so responsible. This is a little peculiar in that the legislature itself has made the aforesaid differentiation in the second proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act, making it clear that a stay order may be extended upto a period of 365 days upon satisfaction that the delay in disposing of the appeal is not attributable to the assessee. We have already seen as to how, as correctly held by Narang Overseas (supra), the second proviso was introduced by the Finance Act, 2007 to mitigate the rigour of the first proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act in its previous avatar. Ordinarily, the Appellate Tribunal, where possible, is to hear and decide appeals within a period of four years from the end of the financial year in which such appeal is filed. It is only when a stay of the impugned order before the Appellate Tribunal is granted, that the appeal is required to be disposed of within 365 days. So far as the disposal of an appeal by the Appellate Tribunal is concerned, this is a directory provision. However, so far as vacation of stay on expiry of the said period is concerned, this condition becomes mandatory so far as the assessee is concerned. The object sought to be achieved by the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act is without doubt the speedy disposal of appeals before the Appellate Tribunal in cases in which a stay has been granted in favour of the assessee. But such object cannot itself be discriminatory 24 or arbitrary, as has been felicitously held in Nagpur Improvement Trust v. Vithal Rao (1973) 3 SCR 39 as follows: “It is now well-settled that the State can make a reasonable classification for the purpose of legislation. It is equally well-settled that the classification in order to be reasonable must satisfy two tests: (i) the classification must be founded on intelligible differentia and (ii) the differentia must have a rational relation with the object sought to be achieved by the legislation in question. In this connection it must be borne in mind that the object itself should be lawful. The object itself cannot be discriminatory, for otherwise, for instance, if the object is to discriminate against one section of the minority the discrimination cannot be justified on the ground that there is a reasonable classification because it has rational relation to the object sought to be achieved.” [at page 47] Since the object of the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act is the automatic vacation of a stay that has been granted on the completion of 365 days, whether or not the assessee is responsible for the delay caused in hearing the appeal, such object being itself discriminatory, in the sense pointed out above, is liable to be struck down as violating Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Also, the said proviso would result in the automatic vacation of a stay upon the expiry of 365 days even if the Appellate Tribunal could not take up the appeal in time for no fault of the assessee. Further, vacation of stay in favour of the revenue would ensue even if the revenue is itself responsible for the delay in hearing the appeal. In this sense, the said 25 proviso is also manifestly arbitrary being a provision which is capricious, irrational and disproportionate so far as the assessee is concerned. 18. In fact, in a recent judgment of this Court in Essar Steel India Ltd. Committee of Creditors v. Satish Kumar Gupta (2020) 8 SCC 531, the word “mandatorily” in the 2nd proviso inserted through an amendment made to Section 12(3) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 was struck down. This Court held: “124. Given the fact that timely resolution of stressed assets is a key factor in the successful working of the Code, the only real argument against the amendment is that the time taken in legal proceedings cannot ever be put against the parties before NCLT and NCLAT based upon a Latin maxim which subserves the cause of justice, namely, actus curiae neminem gravabit. 125. In Atma Ram Mittal v. Ishwar Singh Punia [Atma Ram Mittal v. Ishwar Singh Punia, (1988) 4 SCC 284] , this Court applied the maxim to time taken in legal proceedings under the Haryana Urban (Control of Rent and Eviction) Act, 1973, holding: (SCC pp. 288-89, para 8) “8. It is well settled that no man should suffer because of the fault of the court or delay in the procedure. Broom has stated the maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit — an act of court shall prejudice no man. Therefore, having regard to the time normally consumed for adjudication, the ten years’ exemption or holiday from the application of the Rent Act would become illusory, if the suit has to be filed within that time and be disposed of finally. It is common knowledge that unless a suit is instituted soon after the date of letting it would never be disposed of within ten years and even then within 26 that time it may not be disposed of. That will make the ten years holiday from the Rent Act illusory and provide no incentive to the landlords to build new houses to solve problem of shortages of houses. The purpose of legislation would thus be defeated. Purposive interpretation in a social amelioration legislation is an imperative irrespective of anything else.” 126. Likewise, in Sarah Mathew v. Institute of Cardio Vascular Diseases [Sarah Mathew v. Institute of Cardio Vascular Diseases, (2014) 2 SCC 62 : (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 721] , this Court held that for the purpose of computing limitation under Section 468 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 the relevant date is the date of filing of the complaint and not the date on which the Magistrate takes cognizance, applying the aforesaid maxim as follows: (SCC pp. 96-97, para 39) “39. As we have already noted in reaching this conclusion, light can be drawn from legal maxims. Legal maxims are referred to in Bharat Kale [Bharat Damodar Kale v. State of A.P., (2003) 8 SCC 559 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 39] , Japani Sahoo [Japani Sahoo v. Chandra Sekhar Mohanty, (2007) 7 SCC 394 : (2007) 3 SCC (Cri) 388] and Vanka Radhamanohari [Vanka Radhamanohari v. Vanka Venkata Reddy, (1993) 3 SCC 4 : 1993 SCC (Cri) 571] . The object of the criminal law is to punish perpetrators of crime. This is in tune with the wellknown legal maxim nullum tempus aut locus occurrit regi, which means that a crime never dies. At the same time, it is also the policy of law to assist the vigilant and not the sleepy. This is expressed in the Latin maxim vigilantibus et non dormientibus, jura subveniunt. Chapter XXXVI CrPC which provides limitation period for certain types of offences for which lesser sentence is provided draws support from this maxim. But, even certain offences such as Section 384 or 465 IPC, which have lesser punishment may have serious social consequences. The provision is, therefore, made for condonation of delay. Treating date of filing of complaint or date of initiation of proceedings as the relevant date for computing limitation under Section 468 of the Code 27 is supported by the legal maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit which means that the act of court shall prejudice no man. It bears repetition to state that the court’s inaction in taking cognizance i.e. court’s inaction in applying mind to the suspected offence should not be allowed to cause prejudice to a diligent complainant. Chapter XXXVI thus presents the interplay of these three legal maxims. The provisions of this Chapter, however, are not interpreted solely on the basis of these maxims. They only serve as guiding principles.” 127. Both these judgments in Atma Ram Mittal [Atma Ram Mittal v. Ishwar Singh Punia, (1988) 4 SCC 284] and Sarah Mathew [Sarah Mathew v. Institute of Cardio Vascular Diseases, (2014) 2 SCC 62 : (2014) 1 SCC (Cri) 721] have been followed in Neeraj Kumar Sainy v. State of U.P. [Neeraj Kumar Sainy v. State of U.P., (2017) 14 SCC 136 : 8 SCEC 454] , SCC paras 29 and 32. Given the fact that the time taken in legal proceedings cannot possibly harm a litigant if the Tribunal itself cannot take up the litigant’s case within the requisite period for no fault of the litigant, a provision which mandatorily requires the CIRP to end by a certain date — without any exception thereto — may well be an excessive interference with a litigant’s fundamental right to non-arbitrary treatment under Article 14 and an excessive, arbitrary and therefore unreasonable restriction on a litigant’s fundamental right to carry on business under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India. This being the case, we would ordinarily have struck down the provision in its entirety. However, that would then throw the baby out with the bath water, inasmuch as the time taken in legal proceedings is certainly an important factor which causes delay, and which has made previous statutory experiments fail as we have seen from Madras Petrochem [Madras Petrochem Ltd. v. BIFR, (2016) 4 SCC 1 : (2016) 2 SCC (Civ) 478] . Thus, while leaving the provision otherwise intact, we strike down the word “mandatorily” as being manifestly arbitrary under Article 14 of the Constitution of India and as being an excessive and unreasonable restriction on the litigant’s 28 right to carry on business under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution. The effect of this declaration is that ordinarily the time taken in relation to the corporate resolution process of the corporate debtor must be completed within the outer limit of 330 days from the insolvency commencement date, including extensions and the time taken in legal proceedings. However, on the facts of a given case, if it can be shown to the Adjudicating Authority and/or Appellate Tribunal under the Code that only a short period is left for completion of the insolvency resolution process beyond 330 days, and that it would be in the interest of all stakeholders that the corporate debtor be put back on its feet instead of being sent into liquidation and that the time taken in legal proceedings is largely due to factors owing to which the fault cannot be ascribed to the litigants before the Adjudicating Authority and/or Appellate Tribunal, the delay or a large part thereof being attributable to the tardy process of the Adjudicating Authority and/or the Appellate Tribunal itself, it may be open in such cases for the Adjudicating Authority and/or Appellate Tribunal to extend time beyond 330 days. Likewise, even under the newly added proviso to Section 12, if by reason of all the aforesaid factors the grace period of 90 days from the date of commencement of the Amending Act of 2019 is exceeded, there again a discretion can be exercised by the Adjudicating Authority and/or Appellate Tribunal to further extend time keeping the aforesaid parameters in mind. It is only in such exceptional cases that time can be extended, the general rule being that 330 days is the outer limit within which resolution of the stressed assets of the corporate debtor must take place beyond which the corporate debtor is to be driven into liquidation.” 19.Coming to the arguments of the learned ASG, his reliance upon passages contained in M/s M. Ramnarain (P) Ltd. v. State Trading Corpn. of India Ltd. (1983) 3 SCC 75 (paragraph 16) and M. 29 Janardhana Rao v. CIT (2005) 2 SCC 324 (paragraph 14) do not carry the matter any further. In M/s M. Ramnarain (supra) what was held in paragraph 16 was that the statutory right of appeal conferred on a party may be lost by application of the provisions of some law or by the conduct of the party. This was held in the context of the provisions of Order XX Rule 11 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, which was held by the High Court in that case to deprive the Appellant of his right to prefer an appeal against the main decree. The High Court judgment was set aside, this Court holding: “21. Though by virtue of the provisions of the Original Side Rules of the Bombay High Court the earlier appeal could be permitted to be filed without a certified copy of the decree or order, the appeal would not be valid and competent unless the further requirement of filing the certified copy had been complied with. At the time when the earlier Appeal No. 36 of 1981 had been withdrawn, the certified copy of the decree had not been filed. The said appeal without the certified copy of the decree remained an incompetent appeal. The withdrawal of an incompetent appeal which will indeed be no appeal in the eye of law cannot in any way prejudice the right of any appellant to file a proper appeal, if the right of appeal is not otherwise lost by lapse of time or for any other valid reason. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the provisions contained in Order 20 Rule 11 of the Code do not in the facts and circumstances of the present case deprive the appellant of his right to file an appeal against the decree.” This judgment is distinguishable as it does not deal with the constitutional validity of an appeal provision. 30 20. Likewise, the judgment in Janardhana Rao (supra), which held that a right of appeal is neither a natural nor inherent right but has to be regulated in accordance with the law in force at the relevant time, the conditions of the appellate provision having to be strictly fulfilled, is also a judgment which has no reference to the constitutional validity of an appeal provision being assailed. In point of fact, this Court’s judgment in Mardia Chemicals (supra) comes nearer home when the constitutional validity of a condition for the exercise of the right of appeal is assailed. This was felicitously put by this Court as follows: “60. The requirement of pre-deposit of any amount at the first instance of proceedings is not to be found in any of the decisions cited on behalf of the respondent. All these cases relate to appeals. The amount of deposit of 75% of the demand, at the initial proceeding itself sounds unreasonable and oppressive, more particularly when the secured assets/the management thereof along with the right to transfer such interest has been taken over by the secured creditor or in some cases property is also sold. Requirement of deposit of such a heavy amount on the basis of a one-sided claim alone, cannot be said to be a reasonable condition at the first instance itself before start of adjudication of the dispute. Merely giving power to the Tribunal to waive or reduce the amount, does not cure the inherent infirmity leaning one-sidedly in favour of the party, who, so far has alone been the party to decide the amount and the fact of default and classifying the dues as NPAs without participation/association of the borrower in the process. Such an onerous and oppressive condition should not be left operative in expectation of reasonable exercise of discretion by the authority concerned. Placed in a situation as indicated above, where it may not be possible for the borrower to raise 31 any amount to make the deposit, his secured assets having already been taken possession of or sold, such a rider to approach the Tribunal at the first instance of proceedings, captioned as appeal, renders the remedy illusory and nugatory. 61. In the case of Seth Nand Lal [1980 Supp SCC 574] while considering the question of validity of pre-deposit before availing the right of appeal the Court held: (SCC p. 590, para 22) [R]ight of appeal is a creature of the statute and while granting the right the legislature can impose conditions for the exercise of such right so long as the conditions are not so onerous as to amount to unreasonable restrictions rendering the right almost illusory.” [emphasis supplied] This Court ultimately struck down Section 17(2) of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “SARFAESI Act”) holding that in the circumstances mentioned, the deposit of 75% of the amount claimed as a pre-condition to the hearing of an “appeal” before the Debt Recovery Tribunal under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act was onerous, oppressive, unreasonable, arbitrary and hence violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 21.The learned ASG then relied upon judgments which indicate that when Article 14 of the Constitution of India is applied to tax legislation, greater freedom in the joints must be allowed by the Court in adjudging the constitutional validity of the same. For this purpose, he relied upon 32 State of M.P. v. Bhopal Sugar Industries Ltd. (1964) 6 SCR 846. In this case, the judgment of this Court held that if the statute discloses a permissible policy of taxation, the Courts will uphold it. If, however, the tax was imposed deliberately with the object of differentiating between persons similarly circumstanced, such tax would be liable to be struck down. 22.We have already seen how unequals have been treated equally so far as assessees who are responsible for delaying appellate proceedings and those who are not so responsible, resulting in a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. Also, the expression “permissible” policy of taxation would refer to a policy that is constitutionally permissible. If the policy is itself arbitrary and discriminatory, such policy will have to be struck down, as has been found in paragraph 17 above. 23.The other judgment relied upon by the learned ASG is the judgment in N. Venugopala Ravi Varma Rajah v. Union of India (1969) 1 SCC 681 (paragraph 14). This judgment speaks of a larger play in the joints to legislative discretion in the matter of classification being granted when such legislation is a tax legislation. The caveat applied in this paragraph is that a taxing statute may contravene Article 14 of the Constitution of India if it seeks to impose upon the same class of property, persons, etc., something which leads to obvious inequality. It 33 is this caveat that has been applied to the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act. 24.The learned ASG then relied upon Commr. of Customs v. Dilip Kumar & Co. (2018) 9 SCC 1 (paragraphs 32 to 34). This judgment only reiterates the well-settled principle that in the field of taxation hardship or equity has no role to play in determining eligibility to tax. The present appeals have nothing to do with determining eligibility to tax. They have only to do with a frontal challenge to the constitutional validity of an appeal provision in the Income Tax Act. Also, it is important to remember that the golden rule of interpretation is not given a go-by when it comes to interpretation of tax statutes. This Court in CIT v. J.H. Gotla (1985) 4 SCC 343, put it well when it said: “46. Where the plain literal interpretation of a statutory provision produces a manifestly unjust result which could never have been intended by the Legislature, the Court might modify the language used by the Legislature so as to achieve the intention of the Legislature and produce a rational construction. The task of interpretation of a statutory provision is an attempt to discover the intention of the Legislature from the language used. It is necessary to remember that language is at best an imperfect instrument for the expression of human intention. It is well to remember the warning administered by Judge Learned Hand that one should not make a fortress out of dictionary but remember that statutes always have some purpose or object to accomplish and sympathetic and imaginative discovery is the surest guide to their meaning. 47. We have noted the object of Section 16(3) of the Act which has to be read in conjunction with Section 34 24(2) in this case for the present purpose. If the purpose of a particular provision is easily discernible from the whole scheme of the Act which in this case is, to counteract the effect of the transfer of assets so far as computation of income of the assessee is concerned then bearing that purpose in mind, we should find out the intention from the language used by the Legislature and if strict literal construction leads to an absurd result i.e. result not intended to be subserved by the object of the legislation found in the manner indicated before, and if another construction is possible apart from strict literal construction then that construction should be preferred to the strict literal construction. Though equity and taxation are often strangers, attempts should be made that these do not remain always so and if a construction results in equity rather than in injustice, then such construction should be preferred to the literal construction. Furthermore, in the instant case we are dealing with an artificial liability created for counteracting the effect only of attempts by the assessee to reduce tax liability by transfer. It has also been noted how for various purposes the business from which profit is included or loss is set off is treated in various situations as assessee’s income. The scheme of the Act as worked out has been noted before.” 25.The law laid down by the impugned judgment of the Delhi High Court in M/s Pepsi Foods Ltd. (supra) is correct. Resultantly, the judgments of the various High Courts which follow the aforesaid declaration of law are also correct. Consequently, the third proviso to Section 254(2A) of the Income Tax Act will now be read without the word “even” and the words “is not” after the words “delay in disposing of the appeal”. Any order of stay shall stand vacated after the expiry of the period or periods mentioned in the Section only if the delay in disposing of the 35 appeal is attributable to the assessee. The appeals of the revenue are, therefore, dismissed. ……………………………………..J. [ ROHINTON FALI NARIMAN ] ……………………………………..J. [ B.R. GAVAI ] ……………………………………..J. [ HRISHIKESH ROY ] New Delhi; April 06, 2021. 36 Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Related Judgements PCIT vs. LG Electronics India Pvt Ltd (Supreme Court) Having heard Shri Vikramjit Banerjee, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the appellant, and giving credence to the fact that he has argued before us that the administrative Circular will not operate as a fetter on the Commissioner since it is a quasi judicial authority, we only need to… Engineering Analysis Centre Of Excellence Private Limited vs. CIT (Supreme Court) Given the definition of royalties contained in Article 12 of the DTAAs mentioned in paragraph 41 of this judgment, it is clear that there is no obligation on the persons mentioned in section 195 of the Income Tax Act to deduct tax at source, as the distribution agreements/EULAs in… CIT vs. M/s Veena Developers (Supreme Court) There was much debate on the answer given in para (b) above. It was argued by Mr. Gurukrishna Kumar, learned senior counsel, that a project which is cleared as “residential plus commercial” project cannot be treated as housing project and therefore, this direction is contrary to the provisions of… ITC Limited vs. CIT (Supreme Court) It can be seen, on an analysis of Section 15, that for the said Section to apply, there should be a vested right in an employee to claim any salary from an employer or former employer, whether due or not if paid; or paid or allowed, though not… CIT vs. Balbir Singh Maini (Supreme Court) If an agreement, like the JDA in the present case, is not registered, then it shall have no effect in law for the purposes of Section 53A. In short, there is no agreement in the eyes of law which can be enforced under Section 53A of the Transfer of… ‹ Little Angels Education Society vs. UOI (Bombay High Court) Sadruddin Tejani vs. ITO (Bombay High Court) › Categories — all — AAR All Judgements High Court Others Supreme Court Tribunal Tags — all — recovery of taxes trans judges — all — A. A. Sayed J A. B. Chaudhari J A. C. Rao J A. D. Jain (JM) A. G. Uraizee J A. I. S. Cheema J A. J. Shastri J A. K. Chawla J A. K. Garodia (AM) A. K. Menon J. A. K. Patnaik J A. M. Badar J A. M. Khanwilkar CJ A. M. Khanwilkar J A. Mohan Alankamony (AM) A. N. Venugopala Gowda J A. P. Bhangale J A. S. Bopanna J A. S. Gadkari J A. S. Oka J A. T. Varkey (JM) A. V. Chandrashekara J A. V. Nirgude J A.K. Sikri J. A.M.Shaffique J Abdul Quddhose J Abhay Ahuja J Abhay Manohar Sapre J Abhijit Gangopadhyay J Abraham P. George (AM) Adarsh Kumar Goel J Ajay Kumar Mittal J Ajay Mohan J Ajay Rastogi J Ajay Tewari J Akil Kureshi J Alok Aradhe J Alok Singh J Alok Verma J Amarjit Singh (JM) Amit Shukla (JM) Amitabha Chatterjee J Amitava Roy J Amrita Sinha J Anadee Nath Misshra (AM) Anil Chaturvedi (AM) Anil K. Narendran J Anil R. Dave J Aniruddha Bose J Anita Sumanth J Annapurna Gupta (AM) Annapurna Mehrotra (AM) Antony Dominic J Anup Jairam Bhambhani J Aravind Kumar J Arindam Sinha J Arun Mishra J Asha Arora J Asha Vijayaraghavan (JM) Ashok Bhan J Ashok Bhushan J Ashok Kumar Gaur J Ashok Menon J Ashutosh Kumar J Ashwani Taneja (AM) Ashwani Taneja(AM) Avneesh Jhungan J B. C. Meena (AM) B. Manohar J B. N. Karia J B. P. Colabawalla J B. P. Dharmadhikari J B. P. Jain (AM) B. R. Baskaran (AM) B. R. Gavai J B. R. R. Kumar (AM) B. Rajendran J B. Ramakotiah (AM) B. Sreenivase Gowda J B. Veerappa J B.S.V Prakash Kumar (JM) Badar Durrez Ahmed J Beena Pillai (JM) Bhagchand (AM) Bharati H. Dangre J Bharati Sapru J Bhargav D. Karia J Bhavnesh Saini (JM) Bimal Julka Biren Vaishnav J Biswajit Mohanty J Biswanath Somadder J C Saravanan J C. L. Soni J C. M. Garg (JM) C. N. Prasad (JM) C. V. Bhadang J C. V. Karthikeyan J Challa Kodanda Ram J Challa Nagendra Prasad (JM) Chander Shekhar J Chandra Poojari (AM) Chief Justice D. Karunakara Rao (AM) D. Manmohan VP D. T. Garasia (JM) D. Y. Chandrachud CJ D. Y. Chandrachud J Dama Seshadri Naidu J Debangsu Basak J Deepa Sharma J Deepak Gupta J Deepak Sibal J Dev Darshan Sud J Devan Ramachandran J Dilip Gupta J Dinesh Maheshwari J Dipak Misra CJI Dipak Misra J Diva Singh (JM) Dr. A. L. Saini (AM) Dr. Kaushal Jayendra Thaker J Dr. Manjula Chellur CJ Dr. Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi J Dr. Vineet Kothari J Duvvuru RL Reddy (JM) F. M. Reis J Fateh Deep Singh J G. C. Gupta (VP) G. D. Agrawal (P) G. D. Agrawal (VP) G. M. Akbar Ali J G. Manjunatha (AM) G. Narendar J G. Pavan Kumar (JM) G. R. Udhwani J G. S. Kulkarni J G. S. Pannu (AM) G. S. Pannu (VP) G. S. Patel J G. S. Sandhawalia J. George George K (JM) George Mathan (JM) Girish Chandra Gupta J Gudiseva Shyam Prasad J Gudivasa Shyam Prasad J H. G. Ramesh J H. L. Dattu CJI H. L. Karwa H. L. Karwa VP H. S. Sidhu (JM) H. T. Narendra Prasad J Hari Om Maratha (JM) Harnaresh Singh Gill J Harsha Devani J. Hemant Gupta J Hrishikesh Roy J I. C. Sudhir (JM) I. Mahanty J I. P. Bansal (JM) I. P. Mukerji J I. R. Shaikh I. S. Mehta J Ilesh J Vora J Inderjeet Singh J Indira Banerjee CJ Indira Banerjee J Indira Jain J Indrajit Chatterjee J Indu Malhotra J Inturi Rama Rao (AM) J. Chelameswar J. J. P. Devadhar J J. R. Midha J J. S. Khehar J Jagdish Singh Khehar J. Jason P. Boaz (AM) Jayant Patel J JB Pardiwala J Joginder Singh (JM) John Michael Cunha J K. J. Thaker J K. K. Tated J K. K. Trivedi J K. L. Wadane J K. M. Joseph CJ K. M. Joseph J K. N. Charry (JM) K. Narasimha Chary (JM) K. S. Jhaveri J K. Vinod Chandran J Kalpesh Satyendra Jhaveri J Kalyan Jyoti J Krishna Murari J Kul Bharat (JM) Kuldip Singh (JM) Kurian Joseph J L. Nageswara Rao J L. Narasimha Reddy J L. P. Sahu (AM) Laliet Kumar (JM) M. Balganesh (AM) M. Jaichandren J M. Nagaprasanna J M. R. Shah J M. S. Jawalkar J M. S. Karnik J M. S. Mungale ASJ M. S. Sanklecha J M. S. Sonak J M. Sathyanarayanan J M. Sundar J M. V. Muralidaran J Madan B. Lokur J Madhu Mohan Damodhar (TM) Madhumita Roy (JM) Mahavir Prasad (JM) Mahavir Singh (JM) Manish Borad (AM) Manish Pitale J Manmohan Singh J Manoj Kumar Aggarwal (AM) Mihir Kumar Jha Milind D. Jadhav J Milind N. Jadhav J Mitha Lal Meena (AM) Mohan M. Shantagoudar J Mohit Shah CJ Mridula Bhatkar Mridula Bhatkar J Mukul Shrawat (JM) N. Barathvaja Sankar (VP) N. K. Billaiya (AM) N. K. Choudhry (JM) N. K. Patil J N. K. Pradhan (AM) N. K. Saini (AM) N. Kirubakaran J N. Kumar J N. M. Jamdar J N. S. Saini (AM) N. V. Ramana J N. V. Vasudevan (JM) N.R.S. Ganesan (JM) Najmi Waziri J Navin Sinha J Nitin Jamdar J Nooty Ramamohana Rao J Nutan D. Sardesai J O. P. Kant (AM) P. B. Suresh Kumar J P. K. Bansal (AM) P. K. S. Baghel J P. M. Jagtap P. Madhavi Devi (JM) P. N. Deshmukh J P. N. Prakash J P. R. Ramachandra Menon J P.M.Jagtap (AM) Pankaj Mithal J Partha Sarathi Chaudhury (JM) Pavan Kumar Gadale (JM) Pawan Singh (JM) Pawan Singh Rajawat (ACMM) Pinaki Chandra Ghose J PP Bhatt (President) Pradip Kumar Kedia (AM) Prafulla C. Pant J Prakash D. Naik J Pramod Kumar (AM) Pramod Kumar (VP) Prashant Kumar Mishra J Prashant Maharishi (AM) Prateek Jalan J Pratibha M. Singh J President Prithviraj K. Chavan J R. Banumathi J R. Bhanumathi J R. C R. C. Sharma (AM) R. D. Dhanuka J R. K. Agrawal J R. K. Deshpande J R. K. Gauba J R. K. Panda (AM) R. Karuppiah J R. M. Savant J R. P. Dholeria J R. P. Tolani (JM) R. S. Padvekar (JM) R. S. Sarkale ACCM R. S. Syal (AM) R. S. Syal (VP) R. Subhash Reddy J R. Sudhakar J R.F. Nariman J R.M. Lodha CJI Raghavendra S. Chauhan J Raj Rahul Garg J Rajendra (AM) Rajesh Kumar (AM) Rajiv Sahai Endlaw J Rajiv Shakdher J Rajive Bhalla J Rajpal Yadav (JM) Ram Lal Negi (JM) Ramendra Jain J Ramesh C. Sharma (AM) Ramesh Ranganathan CJ Ramesh Ranganathan J Ramit Kochar (AM) Ranjan Gogoi J Rathnakala J Ravikumar Duraisamy (TM) Ravindra Bhat J Ravindra Nath Mishra J Ravish Sood (JM) Rekha Mittal J Riyaz I. Chagla J Rohinton Fali Nariman J. S. A. Bobde CJI S. A. Bobde J S. Abdul Nazeer J S. C. Dharmadhikari J S. C. Gupte J S. C. Sharma J S. H. Vora J S. J. Kathawallla J S. J. Vajifdar CJ S. J. Vazifdar CJ S. M. Modak J S. Manikumar J S. Muralidhar J S. Rifaur Rahman (AM) S. S. Godara (JM) S. S. Sundar J S. S. Viswanethra Ravi (JM) S. S. Viwanethra Ravi (JM) S. Sujatha J S. V. Gangapurwala J S. V. Mehrotra (AM) S. Vimala J Saktijit Dey (JM) Sandeep Gosain (JM) Sandeep K. Shinde J Sangeeta K. Vishen J Sangita Dhingra Sehgal J Sanjay Arora (AM) Sanjay Garg (JM) Sanjay Karol J Sanjay Kishan Kaul J Sanjay Kumar Gupta J Sanjay Kumar J Sanjeev Narula J Sanjeev Sachdeva J Sanjib Banerjee J Sanjiv Khanna J Sankar Prasad Mitra J Sarang V. Kotwal J Sarathi Chaudhury (JM) Satish Chandra J Saumitra Dayal Singh J Shailendra Yadav (JM) Shaji P. Chaly J Shamim Yahya (AM) Sharad Kumar Sharma J Shekhar B. Saraf J Siddharth Mridul J Sonia Gokani J Subhro Kamal Mukherjee J Subramoniam Prasad J Suchitra Kamble (JM) Sudhakar Reddy (AM) Sudhanshu Dhulia J Sudhanshu Jyoti Mukhopadhaya Sudhanshu Srivastava (JM) Sudhir Agarwal J Suneet Kumar J Sunil B. Shukre J Sunil Kumar Yadav (JM) Sunil P. Deshmukh J Surya Kant J Sushma Chowla (JM) Swapna Joshi J T. Mathivanan J T. R. Meena (AM) T. R. Sood (AM) T. S. Kapoor (AM) T. S. Sivagnanam J T. S. Thakur J Talwant Singh J U.B.S. Bedi (JM) Uday Umesh Lalit J Ujjal Bhuyan J Uma Devi J Umesh Trivedi J V. Bhavani Subbaroyan J V. C. Daga J V. Durga Rao (JM) V. Gopala Gowda J V. K. Jadhav J V. Kameswar Rao J V. M. Deshpande J V. M. Kanade J V. Ramasubramanian J V. S. Sirpurkar J Vasanti A. Naik J Veerendr Singh Sirdhana J Vibha Kankanwadi J Vibhu Bakhru J Vijay Kumar Vyas J Vijay Manohar Sahai J Vijay Pal Rao (JM) Vikas Awasthy (JM) Vikram Singh Yadav (AM) Vineet Saran J Vinod Kumar Misra J vipin Sanghi J Vipin Sangi J Virender Singh J Vivek Varma (JM) Waseem Ahmed (AM) Yashwant Varma J sections — all — - 10 10 B(1)(a) 10(10D) 10(19A) 10(20) 10(23)(vi) 10(23C) (iv) 10(23C)(iiiab) 10(23C)(iv) 10(23C)(via) 10(3) 10(37) 10(38) 100 CPC 10A 10AA 10B 10B (1)(e)(iii) 10B(3) 11 11(1)(a) 11(6) 113 115-O 115A 115BBA 115BBC 115BBE 115JA 115JB 115QA 115VA 115VF 115VG 119 119(2)(b) 12 120(4) 127 12A 12AA 12AA(2) 12AA(3) 13 131(1) 131(1A) 132 132(4) 132A 133A 139(1) 139(3) 139(5) 139AA 140A 142(1) 142(2A) 142(2C) 142A 143 143(1) 143(1A) 143(1D) 143(2) 143(20 143(3) 144 144 CPC 144B 144C 145 145(2) 145(3) 145A 147 148 14A 15 150 150(1) 151 153 153(2A) 153A 153B 153C 153D 154 158B 158BB 158BC 158BD 158BE 158BFA(1) 158BFA(2) 158BH 159 160 160(1)(iv) 161(1) 163 164 164(1) 17 17(2)(iii) 17(2)(vi) 17(3)(iii) 170 170(2) 172 176 18 18 of Limitation Act 184(5) 19(23C)(vi) 192 194 194-H 194-I 194-IA 194-J 194A 194C 194E 194LA 195 195 CrPC 197 197A 1988 199 2(14) 2(15) 2(1A) 2(22)(d) 2(22)(e) 2(24) 2(24)(iia) 2(24)(x) 2(24)(xvi) 2(31) 2(35) 2(42A) 2(42C) 2(43) 2(47) 2(47)(v) 2(47)(vi) 2(7) of the Interest-tax Act 2(7A) 200 200A 201 201(1) 201(1A) 201(3) 205 206AA 206C 207 208 209 22 220(2) 220(6) 221(1) 225 226 226(3) 227 &amp; 323B of Constitution of India 23 23(1)(c) 234A 234B 234C 234D 234E 237 24 241A 244 244A 244A(1)(b) 245 245(2A) 245C 245F 245R 246 246A 249(3) 249(4) 24AA Surtax Act 25 250 251` 252(1) 253 253(1) 253(2) 253(3) 253(5) 254 254(1) 254(2) 254(2A) 255(3) 255(4) 256(1) 256(2) 26(4) of Kar Agr I. T. Act 260A 263 264 268A 269SS 269T 271(1-B) 271(1)(c) 271AAA 271AAB 271B 271C 271D 271E 271FA 271G 272A(1)(c) 272A(2)(c) 272A(2)(k) 273(2)(a) 273B 274 275(1)(c) 275(1A) 276A 276B 276C 277 278AA 278AB 278B 278D 278E 279 279(1) 27A of Wealth-tax Act 28 28(iv) 28(va) 281B 282 29 292B 292BB 292C 293(c) 3 30 31 32 32(1)(ii) 32(2) 35(2AB) 35AB 35AC 35D 36(1)(iii) 36(1)(va) 36(1)(vii) 36(1)(viii) 36(2) 37 37(1) 37(2A) 4 40(a)(i) 40(a)(ia) 40(a)(ii) 40(a)(iii) 40(b)(v) 40(ba) 405 IPC 40A(2) 40A(2)(b) 40A(3) 40A(8) 40A(9) 41(1) 42 43(1) 43(5) 43(5)(a) 43(6) 43(6)(c) 43B 43CB 43D 44AB 44BB 44C 44D 44DA 45 45(4) 45(5) 468 CrPC 46A 47(ii) 47(iii) 47(iv) 47(vii) 47(xiiib) 47A(4) 48 482 CrPC 49 49(1) 5 5 of Limitation Act 5(1) 5(2)(b) 50 50B 50C 53A 54 54B 54EC 54F 54G 55 55A 56 56(1)(viib) 56(2)(vi) 56(2)(vii) 56(2)(viia) 56(2)(viib) 56(viib) 560(5) Companies Act 1956 58 6 6(6)(a) 61 63 68 69 69A 69B 69C 70(3) 72A 72A(6A) 73 79 80 80-H 80-I 80-IA 80-IA(4) 80-IB 80-IB(10) 80-IB(9) 80-IC 80-O 80AB 80G(5) 80HH 80HHC 80HHE 80IA 80IA(2A) 80IA(4) 80IA(9) 80IB(10) 80IB(7) 80P 80V 9 9(1) 9(1)(i) 9(1)(ii) 9(1)(v)(b) 9(1)(vi) 9(1)(vii) 90 90(2) 90(3) 90(4) 92 92A 92A(2) 92B 92BA(i) 92C 92C(1) 92C(1)(a) 92C(3) 92CA 92CA(1) 92CA(3) 92CB 92D 92F Advocates Act 1972 Article 11 Article 12 Article 13(4) Article 136 Article 14 Article 141 Article 142 Article 15 Article 16(1) Article 19(1)(g) Article 21 Article 226 Article 227 Article 23 Article 24 Article 26 Article 3 Article 5 Article 7 Article 8 Article 9 Article5 Artkcle 141 AS-11 Bar Council of India Rules 1975 Benami Transactions Prohibition Act Black Money Act Bombay High Court Rules Chapter VI-A Code Of Conduct Commercial Taxes Companies Act Constitution of India Contempt of Courts Act Contract Act CPC Cr. P. C CrPC CST Act Customs Act DTAA Education Cess Evidence Act Excise Act Excise Duty Explanation 10 to s. 43(1) Explanation 2 to s. 132B Explanation 7 to s. 271(1)(c) Explanation to s. 37 Explanation to s. 73 Extension of stay orders GAAR Gold Control Act 1968 GST Act Hindu Law Hindu Succession Act 1956 HUF Law ICAI Act India-Germany DTAA India-UAE DTAA India-USA DTAA Indian Penal Code Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 Interest-tax Act interpretation of statutes ITAT Appointment Rules ITAT Members Appointment Rules LLP Act Natural Justice Negotiable Instruments Act Notification no. 91 of 2008 dated 28.08.2008 Prevention of Corruption Act Registration Act RTI Act Rule 10A Rule 10AB Rule 10B Rule 10B(1)(b) Rule 10B(1)(d) Rule 10C Rule 10THB Rule 10THD Rule 11 ITAT Rules Rule 11 UA(2)(a) Rule 11U(b)(ii) Rule 11UA Rule 127 Rule 2 of Schedule II Rule 24 Rule 27 Rule 28AA Rule 32A Rule 34(5)(c) Rule 37BA Rule 45 Rule 46A Rule 658 Rule 68 of Second Schedule Rule 6D Rule 6DD Rule 8D Rule 9C Rule_10B Rules 18 and 29 of ITAT Rules s 138 Negotiable Instruments Act S 3 of Indian Evidence Act S. 114 Of Evidence Act s. 14 of partnership Act s. 19 Bihar Finance Act 1981 S. 21 of General Clauses Act S. 24 of General Clauses Act S. 34 of the Evidence Act S. 80-IB(10)(d) Sales-tax Act SARFAESI Act second proviso Section 2(42A) Section 37 Partnership Act Securities Transaction Tax (STT) Service-tax Act Strictures Tribunal Appointment Rules under Article 224A Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme Wealth-tax Act counsels — all — - A. B. Patil A. K. Gupta A. K. Jasani A. K. Lal A. K. Sanghi A. K. Tibrewal A. K. Tulsiyan A. N. S. Nadkarni A. P. Shrivastava A. Shankar A. Srinivas A. T. M. Ranga Ramanujam A. V. Raghuram A. Vissanjee A. Vissanji A.S. Narayanamoorthy Aakash Mansinka Aarti N Shah Aarti Sathe Aasifa Khan Abhay Jadeja Abhijeet Sinha Abhijit Dilip Sarwate Abhimanyu Jhamba Abhinav Mehrotra Abhinav Sharma Abhishek Padwalkar Abhishek Sharma Abhishek Tilak Abhratosh Majumdar Aditya Ajgaonkar Aditya Bohra Agarwal Aishwarya Bhati Ajay Gandhi Ajay R. Singh Ajay Singh Ajay Vohra Ajay Wadhwa Ajit Sharma Ajit U. Amdekar Ajith Anand Shetty Akhilesh Kumar Akhileshwar Sharma Akshat Shrivastava Akshay Bhan Alok Saksena Amin Merchant Amit Arora Amit Desai Amit Goel Amit Khatiwala Amit Mishra Anagha S. Desai Anand Pasari Anand Sanjay M. Nuli Ananya Kapoor Anil C. Nishant Anil Chopra Anil D. Nair Anil Kochar Anil Nair Anil Singh ASG Anil Thakrar Anjali Jha Manish Ankit Agarwal Ankit Vijaywargia Ankul Goyal Anupam Dighe Anurag Sinha Arati Vissanji Arijit Chakrabarti Arijit Chakravarty Arijit Prasad Arpit Agarwal Arta Trana Panda Arun Chabbra Arun Ganesh Jogdeo Arun Raj S Arun Sathe Arvind Datar Arvind Kumar Arvind Pinto Arvind Sonde Ashish Goyal Ashish Mohan Ashok Bhalla Ashok Bhatia Ashok Jayawant Patil Ashok Kotangle Ashwani Gupta Ashwani Kalia Ashwani Kumar Ashwani Taneja Ashwani Tanjeja Asif I. Patel Attorney General Atul Goyal Atul Jasani Atul Ninawat Awdhesh Kumar B. K. Manjunatha B. L. Gandhi B. M. Chatterji B. Narasimha Sarma B. Ramana Kumar B. S. Balachandran B. S. Soparkar B. Satyanarayana Murthy B. V. Balaram Das B. V. Jhaveri Babu Prasad Baij Nath Patel Balasaheb Yevale Balbir Singh Bansuri Swaraj Basava Prabhu Patil Bharat Damodar Bharat Gandhi Bharat Kumar Bharat Raichandani Bharath Janarthanan Bhargava V. Desai Bhupendra Shah Bidhan Chandra Rai Bijay Panda Bishwajit Bhattacharyya Brijesh Singh C. A. Sundaram C. H. Naniwadekar C. J. Thakkar C. Kameswara Rao C. N. Sreekumar C. Naresh C. P. Ramaswamy C. S. Agarwal C. S. Aggarwal C. Subrahmanyam C. V. S. Murthy CA Nishant Maitin CA Sundaram CBM Warrier Chandni Tanna Chetan Karia Chetan Pandya Chinmayee Chandra Chirag Shetty Chitranajan Bharadia Chythanya K. K CIT-DR Amitabh Kumar Sinha CIT-DR Indrjit Singh D S Damle D. C. Jain D. L. Chidanand D. V. Anjaneyulu D. V. Lakhani Darshan B Gandhi Darshan Patel Debesh Panda Deepa Khare Deepak Chopra Deepak Tralshawalla Deepika Sekar Devendra Jain Devendra Singh Devina Sharma Dhanesh Bafna Dharan Gandhi Dharmesh Shah Dhiren Shah Dhruv Agarwal Dhruv Aggarwal Dhruv Mehta Dinesh Goyal Dinesh Vyas Dinkle Haria Dipendra Mohan Dishesh Shrivastava Divesh Chawla Dr Birendra Saraf Dr. Abhinav Chandrachud Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi Dr. Aman Hingorani Dr. Anitha Sumanth Dr. K. Shivram Dr. Lalit Bhasin Dr. Manish Singhvi Dr. P. Daniel Dr. Rakesh Gupta Dr. S M Lala Dushyant Dave Elson Sequeira Ex-parte F. V. Irani Firdos Mirza Firoze Andhyarujina G C Srivastava G. Balaji G. Baskar G. C. Pipara G. M. Mehta G. N. Reddy G. P. Mehta G. S. Pikale G. Venkatesh Gargi Bhagwat Gaurav Agrawal Gaurav Bharadwaj Gaurav Jain Gaurav Joshi Gaurav Kabra Gaurav Mahajan Gaurav Sharma Gaurav V. Kathed Gautam Jain Geetanjali Mohan Girish Dave Gopal Krishna Shivaram Hegde Gopal Ram Sharma Gopal Subramanium Govind Jhaveri Gunjan Pathak Guru Krishna Kumar Guru Krishnakumar Gyan Pipara H. N. Khincha H. P. Agarwal H. P. Ranina H. Raghavendra Rao H. Srinivasulu Hardik P Modi Haresh G. Buch Haresh P. Shah Hari S. Raheja Harinder Toor Hariom Tulsyan Harish Salve Harsh Bafna Harsh Kapadia Harsh Kothari Harsh Shah Harshvardhana Datar Harshwardhabn Datar Hemang Gargieya Hemant Kumar Arora Hemant Sethi Himanshu Gandhi Himanshu S. Sinha Himanshu Shekhar Sinha Hirali Desai Hiren Mehta Hiren Trivedi Hiro Rai Hiten Chande Hitesh Kaplish Huzefa Ahmadi Huzefa Ahmedi Imtiaz Ahmed Inder Paul Bansal Indira Anand Indu Malhotra Inturi Rama Rao Iype John J. B. Mishra J. D. Mistry J. J. Mehrotra J. J. Pardiwalla J. P. Bairagra J. P. Khaitan J. P. Shah J. S. Bhasin J.D. Mistri Jabbar Shaikh Jaideep Gupta Jas Sanghavi Jas Sanghvi Jascinta Zimik Vashai Jasmin Amalsaduala Jay Bhansali Jay Savla Jayesh Dolia Jeet Kamdar Jignesh R. Shah Jinita Chatterjee Jitendra Jain Jitendra Motwani Jitendra Sanghavi Jitendra Singh JK Mittal Jose Jacob Joseph Kodianthara Joseph Markos Joy Kuriakose Jyoti Narula K C Moondra K Vasantkumar K. A. Aravind K. B. Mohammed Kutty K. Balakrishnan K. C. Devdas K. G. Raghavan K. Gopal K. K. Chaitanya K. K. Chythanya K. K. Sharma K. K. Venugopal K. L. Dharmadhikari AGP K. Meenakshi Sundaran K. Neeraja K. P. Dewani K. P. Ganguli K. P. Gaunguli K. P. Paulson K. Parameshwar K. R. Chhabra K. R. Lakshminarayanan K. R. Manjani K. R. Rastogi K. R. Sekar K. R. Vasudevan K. Radhakrishnan K. S. Hanumantha Rao K. V. Aravind K. V. Mohan Kaanan Kapur Kadambari Dave Kailash Chand Kalpesh Turalkar Kanchan Kaushal Kanchun Kaushal Kapil Goel Kapil Goyal Karishma Phatarphekar Karishma Popat Phatarphekar Karishma R Phatarphekar Kavin Gulati Kavita Jha Kedar Phadke Keshav Bhujle Ketan Ved Kiran S. Javali Kiran Suri Kirit N. Mehta Kirit Sheth Kishor Phadke Kishore Phadke KR Patel Krishna V. Gujrathi Krishnan Venugopal Kuldeep Dhiman Kushagra Pandey L. D. Vakil Lakshmikumaran Lalith Kumar Laxminiwas Sharma M K Patel M S Syali M. G. Moryani M. H. Patil M. K. Gautam M. Karunagaran M. M. Golvala M. P. Lohia M. P. Rastogi M. P. Senthilkumar M. R. Shah M. Rajshirke M. S. Mathuria M. S. Vohra M. Selvakumar M. Sivathanu M. Subramanian M. Swaminathan Madhur Agrawal Mahabir Singh Mahalakshmi Pawani Mahendra Gargieya Mahesh Saboo Mala Goel Manasvini Bajpai Mandar Vaidya Mangar Shukla Manish J. Shah Manish J. Sheth Manish K. Kaji Manish Kant Manish Kanth Manish Pushkarna Manish R Bhatt Manish Tiwari Manoj Kataruka Manoj Khurana Manoj Kumar Manoj N. Makhania Manoj Shirsat Manoj Swarup Manshi Padhiar Manthan Shah Manu Monga Mathew Joseph Mathew Nedumpara Mayank Jain Mayank Nagi Megha Sharma Meghraj Mehul Agarwal Mihir Joshi Mihir Naniwadekar Mihir Thakore Miraj D. Shah Mohan Parasaran Monika Ghai MR Bhatt Mrugakshi K Joshi Mrunal Parekh Mukesh Advani Mukesh Bhutani Mukesh Butani Mukesh Patel Mukul Rohatgi Muniyappa N. C. Jain N. C. Mohanty N. K. Poddar N. K. Sahi N. K. Saini N. K. Shahi N. K. Shrimal N. L. Agarwal N. M. Porwal N. M. Ranka N. P. Sahni N. R. Agrawal N. S. Bhattad N. V. Balaji N. V. Nadkarni N. Venkataraman N. Vijay Kumar Nageshwar Rao Nakul Dewan Narendra Sharma Naresh Jain Naresh Kumar Natasha Mangat Naveen Kumar Mishra Navtej Kumar Neelam Jadhav Neelkanth Khandelwal Neeraj Jain Neeraj Kaul Neha Paranjpe Nidhesh Gupta Nikhil Nayyar Nikhil Pai Nikhil Pathak Nikhilesh Begani Nikita Badeka Nilesh Patel Nimesh Chotani Niraj Sheth Nishant Thakkar Nishit Gandhi Nitesh Gandhi Nitesh Joshi Nitin Narang Nitin P. Deshpande Nupur Shah O. D. Kakade O. P. Mody P. B. Balakrishnan P. C. Chhotaray P. C. Parwal P. C. Tripathi P. Chidambaram P. Daniel P. H. Parekh P. K. Kapoor P. K. Shahi P. M. Choudhari P. M. Choudhary P. Murali Mohan Rao P. N. Arora P. R. Kothari P. R. Mullick P. Ramesh Kumar P. Rao P. Soma Sekhar Reddy P. V. Kapur P. V. Surte P.J. Pardiwalla Padamchand Khincha Pankaj Garg Pankaj Gupta Pankaj Jain Pankaj Mishra Pankaj R. Toprani Pankaj Shah Parag Tripathi Paras Savla Paresh Shaparia Parikshit Agarwal Parikshit Aggarwal Parveen Kumar Aggarwal Paurami Sheth Pavan Ved Pawan Kumar Percy Pardiwala Phiroz Andhyarujina Pinki Anand Piyush Chawla Piyush Chhajed Piyush Kaushik Pooja Swaroop Poonam Ahuja Porus Kaka Pradeep Dinodia Pradeep K. Sahgal Pradeep N. Kapasi Pradeep S. Jetly Pradyuman Bisht Pragya Koolwal Prakash Chand Yadav Prakash Jhunjhunwala Prakash Jotwani Prakash Kumar prakash Shah Prakul Khurana Pramita M Biswas Pramod Kumar Parida Pramod Shingte Pranav Badheka Pranjal Srivastava Pranshu Goel Prasanth Srinivas Prashant Bhushan Prathna Jalan Preetesh Kapur Prem Lata Bansal Prem Nath Monga Preteesh Kapur Pretesh Kapur Prithviraj Choudhari Priya Bhalawal Priyadarshi Manish Puneet Jain Pushkar Pandey Pushya Sitaraman R. B. Doshi R. B. Shah R. C. Jain R. Hemalatha R. K. Biswas R. K. Bothra R. K. Patel R. M. Sinha R. Muralidhar R. N. Bajoria R. N. Dutta R. Narendran R. P. Bhat R. P. Bhatt R. Raghunandan R. S. Ahuja R. S. Singhavi R. S. Singhvi R. Sivaraman R. V. Desai R. V. Easwar R. Venkataramani R. Vijaya Narayan R. Vijayaraghavan Radha Raman Tripathy Radha Shyam Jena Radhika Suri Rafiq Dada Raghavendra Rao Raghunathan Sampath Raghuraman V Rahul Chaudhary Rahul Hakani Rahul K. Mitra Rahul R. Sarda Rahul Raman Rahul Sarda Raj Kumar Raj Kumar Gupta Raj Kumar Mehta Rajan Vora Rajat Navei Rajat Navet Rajeev Sogani Rajesh Arora Rajesh Mahana Rajesh Mahna Rajesh Poojary Rajesh Shah Rajesh Simhan Rajiv Jain Rajiv Nayar Rajiv Sogani Rajkumar Singh Rajshekar Rao Rajveer Singh Rakesh Dwivedi Rakesh Garg Rakesh Gupta Rakesh Joshi Rakesh Kumar Khiwani Rakesh Ranjan Agarwal Ram Chandra Prabesh Ram Jethmalani Ramesh Babu Ramesh K. Singhania Ramesh Kumar Patodia Rameshwar Prasad Goyal Ramit Katyal Ramji Srinivasan Ramprakash B. Shroff Rampriyadas Rano Jain Rashi Khanna Rashmi Chopra Rashmi Gupta Rashmikant C. Modi Ravi Kadam Ravi Rattesar Ravi Sharma Ravi Tulsiyan Ravish Sood Reepal G. Tralshawalla Rishabh Jain Ritika Agarwal Ritin Rai Riyaz S. Padvekar Rohan Deshpande Rohan Shah Rohan Sogani Rohit Garg Rohit Jain Rohit Tiwari Roshan Shah Ruchir Bhatia Rupesh Kumar Rutuja Pawar S Venkatraman S. Ananthan S. Anardan S. B. Upadhyay S. Baskar Mathuram S. C. Gupta S. C. Matta S. C. Thakkar S. C. Tiwari S. G. Dalal S. Ganesh S. J. Mehta S. Jhajharia S. K. Agarwal S. K. Bagaria S. K. Gupta S. K. Mukhi S. K. Tulsiyan S. K. Tyagi S. Krishnan S. M. Mathur S. M. Surana S. N. Soparkar S. P. Singh S. Parthasarathy S. R. Anuradha S. R. Sharma S. Raghunathan S. S. Rajeshwara Rao S. Rama Rao S. Ramasubramanyam S. Ravi S. S. Gupta S. S. Kantak S. Sathiyanarayanan S. Sridhar S. Sriram S. V. Adwant S. V. Joshi S.E. Dastur Sachin Datta Sachin Jain Sachit Jolly Sajjan Poovayya Salil Agarwal Salil Kapoor Salman Khurshid Samaraditya Pal Sameer Bhatia Sameer Dalal Sanat Kapoor Sandeep Goel Sandeep Sethi Sangeeta Kumar Sanjay B. Sawant Sanjay Bansal Sanjay Jain Sanjay Jhanwar Sanjay Nath Sanjay R. Parikh Sanjay Shah Sanjay Singh Sanjeev Kwatra Sanjeev Sapra Sanjiv Chaudhary Sanjiv Sabharwal Sanjiv Shah Sanket Joshi Santosh Agarwal Sashank Dandu Sashi Tulsiyan Satish Aggarwal Satish Mody Satyajeet Goel Satyen Sethi Sean Wassodew Shailesh Kumar Shakeel A Qureshi Sham Walve Shambhu Chopra Shanti Bhushan Sharan Jagtiani Sharmila Prabhu Shashi Bekal Shashi N. Kapila Shaswat Bajpai Shilpa Kapil Shipra Ghosh Shiv Prakash Shivan Desai Shobha Jagtiani Shreyash Shah Shubham Agarwal Shyam Divan Shyam Diwan Shyam Lal Agarwal Shyam Walve Siddharth Luthra Sidharth Luthra Simran Mehta Siva Kumar Smita Das Somasekar Sundaresan Somil Agarwal Somnath Ghosh Somnath Shukla Sonil Aggarwal Soumen Adak Soumitra Choudhury Sourabh Bagharia Sridhar Potaraju Srihari Iyer Sriram Seshadri Subash Agarwal Subhas Agarwal Subhash Chhajed Subhash S. Shetty Sudheendra B. R Sudhir Chandra Sudhir Kumar Sudhir Sehgal Sugata Shankar Roy Sujay Kantawala Sujit Ghosh Sukh Sagar Syal Sumit Lalchandani Sumit Mangal Sunil Ganoo Sunil Hirawat Sunil M. Lala Sunil Moti Lala Sunil Pathak Sunil Sethi Sunil T. Vankawala Sunil U Pathak Suraj Jhanwar Suresh K. Gupta Suresh Kumar Susan Linhares Sushant Murthy Sushil Kumar Jain Suyash Agrawal Swapnil Bangur Swapnil Deshmukh Swarn Singh Syed Jameeluddin T P Ostwal T. Banusekar T. J. Pandian T. M. Sreedharan T. N. Seetharaman T. Pappaiah Dharmarajan T. R. Senthil Kumar T. Srinivasa T. Surya Narayana T. Suryanarayana T. V. Subramanya Bhat Tanmany Phadke Tanzil R. Padvekar Tarun Arora Tarun Gulati Tarundeep Singh Tej Mohan Singh Tushar Mehta Tushar P. Hemani U. A. Rana U. Dasgupta Urvashi Dhugga Urvashi Shodhan Usha Dalal Utkarsh Shrivastava Utsav Sahgal V Justin V K Tulsian V. K. Beswal V. L. Jain V. Lakshmikumaran V. P. Gupta V. Prabhakar V. S. Hadade V. S. Rastogi V. Shekhar V. Sridharan V. Srinivasan V.V.S. Rao Vaibhav Pandya Vani H Vartik Choksi Varun Patel Vasanti Patel Ved Jain Vibha Dutta Makhija Vijay Kothari Vijay Mehta Vijay Shah Vijaykumar G Subramanyam Vikas Jain Vikram Nankani Vikramjit Banerjee Vikramjit Banerjee ASG Vimal Desai Vimal Gupta Vimal Punamiya Vimal Punmiya Vinayak Patkar Vinod Kumar Bindal Vipul J Shah Vipul Joshi Viraj Mehta Virendra Ojha Vishal Kalra Vivek Perampurna Vrinda Tulshan Y .K. Kapur Y. K. Sud Y. P. Trivedi Y. Ratnakar Yashank P. Adhyaru Yatish Kumar Laad Yogesh Agrawal Yogesh Thar Zoheb Hossain courts — all — AAR Allahabad High Court Andhra Pradesh High Court AP &amp; T High Court Appellate Tribunal for Benami Transactions Bombay High Court Bombay High Court (Goa Bench) Calcutta High Court CESTAT Chhattisgarh High Court Chief Metropoliton Magistrate CIC Constitution Bench Delhi High Court Gujarat High Court Himachal Pradesh High Court ITAT Agra ITAT Ahmedabad ITAT Amritsar ITAT Bangalore ITAT Chandigarh ITAT Chennai ITAT Cochin ITAT Cuttack ITAT Delhi ITAT Hyderabad ITAT Indore ITAT Jabalpur ITAT Jaipur ITAT Jodhpur ITAT Kolkata ITAT Lucknow ITAT Mumbai ITAT Panaji ITAT Patna ITAT Pune ITAT Raipur ITAT Rajkot ITAT Ranchi ITAT Surat ITAT Vizag J&amp;K High Court Karnataka High Court Kerala High Court Madhya Pradesh High Court Madras High Court Mumbai Mumbai ITAT Mumbai Tribunal NCLT Mumbai Orissa High Court P&amp;H High Court Patna High Court Rajasthan High Court Sessions Court Special Bench Supreme Court Third Member Uttarakhand High Court catchwords — all — +/- 5% adjustment $5 trillion economy 115JB Book Profits 143(1) assessment 234B interest 234C interest 234D interest 244A Interest 35D deduction 40A(2) disallowance 54F deduction 68 80-IA deduction 80HHC export incentives Aadhaar Card abatement of assessment Accomodation Accomodation entries accountability Accounting Standards Accrual Accrual of income Acknowledgement of debt actual cost actual payment additional evidence Additional Ground adjournment adjustment Admission by lawyer whether binding on client admission of appeal admission of undisclosed income advance ruling advance tax adventure in the nature of trade advertisement expenditure Advocates Advocates strike AE Affidavit agent aggregation agricultural income agricultural land AIR information addition allegation Allocation Key allocation of common expenditure ALP alternate claim alternate remedy ALV amalgamation Amazon Web Services (AWS) AMP Expenditure ancestral property annual value anonymous donations AOP APA apparant mistake application of income application of mind application software Appointment appointment of Tribunal Members apportionment of lump-sum consideration appreciation of department approval Arms length price arrest for recovery of arrear demand Assembly vs. Manufacture assessability Assessment associated enterprise attachment order attribution of profits to PE Audit Objection back-dated reasons Bad Debt belonging to Benami Transactions beneficial owner of shares Berry Ratio Best Judgement assessment Bills of Exchange binding effect binding precedent Black Money block assessment Block of Assets bogus accomodation entries bogus accounts bogus capital gains bogus expenditure bogus liability Bogus Loans Bogus purchases Bogus Sales bogus share capital bogus share premium Book Profits books of account borrowed capital BOT Bounced cheque BPO bribe brokerage built-up area business connection business expenditure business income business loss Business profits buy-back tax buyback of shares call option cancellation of registration capacity underutilization capital asset capital employed capital expenditure capital gains Capital receipt capital reduction capital vs. revenue expenditure capital vs. revenue receipt capitation fee carbon credits Carry forward of losses. cash credit cash deposit cash loan cash payments casual casual income CBDT Circular CBDT Circular dated 29.2.2016 CBDT Guidelines for scrutiny of cases CBDT Instructions CCM CCTV Cameras in ITAT CD cenvat credit CENVAT incentive scheme certified copy cessation Change in method of accounting change in shareholding change of address Change of opinion Charitable purpose charity charter hire Chartered Accountant CIT (DR) clarificatory amendment Client Code Modiciation Client Code Modification closing stock closing stock valuation co-op housing society Co-operative Society code of conduct coercive recovery colorable device commercial expediency commission Compact Disc companies Comparables compensation complete scrutiny completed contract composite business compounding fee compounding of offences compulsory acquisition computer software concealment concealment of income concealment Penalty concelment Penalty concession concurrent jurisdiction condonation Condonation of delay confidentiality consent letter consistency principle constitution constitutional validity construction of house constructive delivery consultancy services contempt of court Contractor conversion of company into LLP copyright Corona Virus corporate guarantee Corporate Social Responsibility corruption cost of acquisition Cost Plus Method costs court fee Covid-19 Creation of reserve criminal proceedings cross examination Cross-Objection CSR CUP CUP method Customs Duty Date of initiation of search DCF Valuation DDT dead person debatable issue debenture deductibility deduction Deduction u/s 54EC Deduction under section 10B deduction under section 80P deemed dividend deemed income defective notice deferred revenue expenditure defunct company delay delegation demonetization of currency Departmental Representative Dependent Agent Permanent Establishment deposits for payment of taxes Depreciation derivative contract derivatives derived from the undertaking Developer Development agreement Development Right’s Certificate Dharmada receipts disability disallowance Disallowance u/s 14 &amp; Rule 8D Disallowance u/s 14A &amp; Rule 8D disclose fully and truly all material facts disclosure discount discretionary trust Dissolution Diversion of income by overriding title dividend Dividend Distribution Tax Doctrine of Force Majeure Document domain registration fees Domestic Transfer Pricing donation Double Taxation Draft assessment order DRP Due date DVO's valuation report E-Assessment E-filing of appeals before CIT(A) Education Cess educational institution effectively connected with eligible profits Eligible undertaking email Employees contribution employer-employee relationship enhanced compensation Enhancement enhancement of income entertainment tax subsidy EOU Unit Escapement of Income ESIC ESOP estimate estoppel ethics Euribor Evidence Act ex-parte dismissal excess credit period Excise Duty excise records exempt income exemption existing liability expedited hearing of appeal Expeditious hearing export profits export turnover Extension of stay order extension of time extinguishment of rights extrapolation Failure of natural justice failure to disclose material facts fair market value of shares family arrangement family settlement fee feed for included services Fees for Independent Services fees for professional services Fees for technical services Female finding or direction fine firm fishing and roving inquiry FMV foerign tax foreign agents foreign bank account foreign exchange loss foreign lawyers foreign tax credit forex gain forex loss fraud freebies to doctors Frustration of Contract FSI functional test furnishing inaccurate particulars of income GAAR garnishee notices genuine hardship gift gifts from relatives goodwill Google Adwords GST Act guess work Guidance Note Guidelines head office expenses Hedging loss high-handed high-pitched assessments Hindu Law Hindu Succession Act 1956 Hindul Law HO holding company - subsidiary Housing Project HSBC Black Money HUF Human Probability hypothetical income ICAI ICD ICDS illegal business Impermissible Avoidance Agreement incentive income Income from house property income from other sources income-tax return incriminating material independent application of mind independent personal services India-Canada DTAA India-Cyprus DTAA India-France DTAA India-Germany DTAA India-Japan DTAA India-Korea DTAA India-Mauritius DTAA India-Netherlands DTAA India-Singapore DTAA India-Thailand DTAA India-UAE DTAA India-UK DTAA India-USA DTAA individual infraction of law initial assessment year injury Inland Container Depot (ICD) Inland Port inquiry Installation PE Instruction No. 1914 dated 2.2.1993 Instruction No.3/2003 dated 20.05.2003 insurance companies intangible asset Interest interest on broken period interest on fixed deposit interest on refund interest-free deposit interference with judiciary international transactions interpretation of statutes Intimation intra-group services investment investment in name of spouse (wife) irresponsible conduct irrevocable transfer ITAT Member ITAT Members ITAT recruitment ITES Joint Venture jurisdictional issue Karta keyman insurance KPO Land land acquisition Land Ceiling Act lease finance leasehold land leave encashment legal database legal fees legal representative legal services lessee liability liaison office LIBOR Limit on extent of commercial area of housing project Limitation Act Limitation of Benefits limitation period Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) limited scrutiny live broadcast loan or deposit of money Loans local authority location savings adjustment long-term capital asset Loose papers loss loss return low tax effect circular LTCG maintainability of appeal maintenace of property Maintenance charges make available management services Manger manufacturing process Married Daughters matching concept mens rea mercantile system of accounting Merchant Banker Merger Merilyn Shipping mesne profits method of valuation mineral oil Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) mining services Miscellaneous Application mobilisation fee modvat credit monetary consideration mortgage Most Appropriate Method municipality mushroom mutuality Mutuality - TDR Premium natural justice NAV valuation NDTV Negotiable Instruments Act Net Present Value (NPV) new industrial undertaking new residential house non-compete fee non-discrimination Non-executive directors liability Non-issue of s. 143(2) notice non-occupancy charges non-resident Non-service of s. 143(2) notice non-speaking order not involving the carrying of any activity of profit notification notional interest notional loss NPA NSEL scam NTT null &amp; void omission of provision on money onus operating lease Operating profit operational income opportunity of being heard Order on non-existing person order sheet Other income other place of their work other sources OTSS Owner paid vs payable PAN part performance of contract partners Partnership payment gateway charges payment of SA tax PE PE Fund peak credit penalty penalty for non-complaince with s. 131(1A) summons Penny Stocks percentage completion method Period of Holding - Long Term Capital Asset or Short Term Capital Asset permanent arrangement Permanent Establishment Perquisite Person Personal Ledger Account perverse finding of fact PF philanthropic purposes PIL PLA Plant PLI PMS Portfolio Management Services Power of Attorney Power Of Registrar power to review powers of CIT(A) powers of ITAT premium preponderance of probability presumption presumptive income prima facie adjustment principal-agent relationship principles of natural justice priority hearing priority of dues production sharing contract production vs. manufacturing professional expenditure professional misconduct profit motive Profit on sale of shares Profit Split Method promissory estoppel propriety prosecution protective assessment provision for bad debts provisional attachment proviso to Section 147 public interest purchase RBI Approval real income theory reason to believe reasonable cause reasons Reassessment recall of order Recovery of tax rectification of mistake redemption of preference shares redevelopment of property reduction of capital Reference Reference to TPO refund Refund of penalty registered shareholder registration reimbursement of actual cost Reimbursement of expenses Rejection of books of account rejection of books of accounts on arbitrary basis Related Party Transactions (RPTs) remand remission rent Rent for use of terrace rental income Reopening Reopening of assessment repairs repeal of a statute representative assessee res judicata Resale Price Method residential house restitution Retirement retraction Retrospective amendment retrospective operation Return of Income revenue recognition revised return Revision Revision u/s 263 revocable transfer Right to Information Act 2005 right to sue rights in a property risk adjustment royalty RPM RTI Act S. 43B deduction s. 50C s. 80(3) of Companies Act 1956 safe harbour rules salaries salary sales-tax sales-tax remission sales-tax tribunal sanction SARFAESI Act satellite satisfaction scam scientific research scope of appeal Scope of scrutiny scrap sales sear search and seizure Search assessment Secondment agreement Section 153A- Search and Seizure section 254(2) Section 68 cash credit Securities Transaction Tax securitization of lease receivables seized cash self assessment tax Service service by affixture service charges service of notice Service PE service-tax set-off of loss setting up of business Settlement Commission sexual harassment sham transactions share application money share capital share premium shares sharing of profit shell company shipping income short-term capital gains Sikkim Lottery situs of intangible property Slot Charters SLP slump sale Small scale industrial undertaking software licensing sogo shosha source of income Special Audit Special Bench Special Leave Petition Specific trust Specified Domestic Transactions speculative loss stamp duty valuation start up costs statement on oath Static vs. Ambulatory interpretation of DTAAs stay of assessment proceedings stay of demand stay of judgement stay of penalty proceedings stay of prosection proceedings sticky advances Stock Appreciation Rights Stock Exchange Card stock options stock-in-trade STPI strategic investment strict construction strictures subsidy substantial expansion substantial question of law subvention successor sufficient cause supporting manufacturer supression of sales surplus surrender survey system software tax tax audit tax avoidance Tax Credit tax evasion tax planning tax rate Tax Recovery Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) Taxability Taxation of foreign branches TCS default TDR TDS TDS credit TDS deduction TDS default TDS disallowance TDS reconciliation technical knowhow technosavvy terrace Third Member tips TNMM Toll Road Tonnage Tax Scheme total turnover TP Adjustment only on AE transactions transfer transfer fees transfer of case transfer of preference shares to equity shares Transfer Pricing Transfer Pricing investment in share capital of wholly owned subsidiary Transferable Development Right transmission fees transperent entities treaty override turnover Turnover Filter ultra vires unaccounted income unclaimed liabilities undertaking underutilization of capacity undervaluation undisclosed assessment Undisclosed Income undivided share of co-owner unexplained cash credit unexplained expenditure unexplained gifts unexplained income unexplained investment unlawful expenditure Unpaid Service Tax usance charges use of asset vacancy allowance vakalatnama valuation of property valuation of shares valuation of stock-in-trade VAT Tribunal verification vested right video conferencing Vivad se Vishwas Void waiver of income waiver of loan wealth-tax web hosting charges whatsapp withdrawal of appeal working capital adjustment Works Contract Writ jurisdiction Writ Petition write-off of debts wrong claim vs. false claim year of taxability genre — all — domes Domestic Tax International Tax Other Laws Transfer Pricing Reset (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Recent Posts Tata Communications Ltd vs. UOI (Bombay High Court) Teleperformance Global Services Private Limited vs. ACIT (Bombay High Court) DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad) Maria Fernandes Cheryl vs. ITO (ITAT Mumbai) Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Limited vs. Bishal Jaiswal (Supreme Court) Recent CommentsSamir Bhuptani on CIT vs. D. K. Garg (Delhi High Court)Article on ADIT vs. E-Funds IT Solution Inc (Supreme Court)Sejal on Maria Fernandes Cheryl vs. ITO (ITAT Mumbai)Sejal on DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad)Sejal on DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad)Archives April 2021 (8) March 2021 (8) January 2021 (9) December 2020 (4) November 2020 (2) October 2020 (2) September 2020 (3) August 2020 (5) July 2020 (9) June 2020 (12) May 2020 (9) April 2020 (9) March 2020 (16) February 2020 (19) January 2020 (10) December 2019 (10) November 2019 (13) October 2019 (22) September 2019 (11) August 2019 (16) July 2019 (15) June 2019 (18) May 2019 (9) April 2019 (31) March 2019 (21) February 2019 (20) January 2019 (12) December 2018 (24) November 2018 (25) October 2018 (27) September 2018 (28) August 2018 (36) July 2018 (29) June 2018 (27) May 2018 (25) April 2018 (27) March 2018 (28) February 2018 (12) January 2018 (22) December 2017 (24) November 2017 (18) October 2017 (16) September 2017 (30) August 2017 (18) July 2017 (22) June 2017 (18) May 2017 (29) April 2017 (21) March 2017 (20) February 2017 (16) January 2017 (32) December 2016 (24) November 2016 (15) October 2016 (15) September 2016 (21) August 2016 (25) July 2016 (15) June 2016 (13) May 2016 (37) April 2016 (45) March 2016 (36) February 2016 (30) January 2016 (20) December 2015 (11) November 2015 (37) October 2015 (31) September 2015 (27) August 2015 (35) July 2015 (43) June 2015 (29) May 2015 (28) April 2015 (29) March 2015 (43) February 2015 (30) January 2015 (38) December 2014 (43) November 2014 (58) October 2014 (93) September 2014 (14) August 2014 (22) July 2014 (24) June 2014 (24) May 2014 (19) April 2014 (20) March 2014 (12) February 2014 (40) January 2014 (17) December 2013 (20) November 2013 (15) October 2013 (12) September 2013 (13) August 2013 (13) July 2013 (10) June 2013 (12) May 2013 (24) April 2013 (27) March 2013 (13) February 2013 (15) January 2013 (16) December 2012 (17) November 2012 (13) October 2012 (14) September 2012 (27) August 2012 (33) July 2012 (21) June 2012 (17) May 2012 (29) April 2012 (35) March 2012 (31) February 2012 (24) January 2012 (22) December 2011 (19) November 2011 (25) October 2011 (13) September 2011 (17) August 2011 (13) July 2011 (21) June 2011 (22) May 2011 (19) April 2011 (23) March 2011 (28) February 2011 (23) January 2011 (21) December 2010 (23) November 2010 (12) October 2010 (17) September 2010 (10) August 2010 (11) July 2010 (14) June 2010 (10) May 2010 (16) April 2010 (8) March 2010 (11) February 2010 (11) January 2010 (12) December 2009 (14) November 2009 (12) October 2009 (9) September 2009 (11) August 2009 (14) July 2009 (13) June 2009 (2) May 2009 (7) April 2009 (10) March 2009 (14) February 2009 (11) January 2009 (17) December 2008 (12) November 2008 (11) October 2008 (13) September 2008 (22) August 2008 (19) July 2008 (9) June 2008 (4) May 2008 (9) April 2008 (12) March 2008 (9) February 2008 (19) January 2008 (13)