Confidential Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref. No: NSE/CML/2022/33 Date: July 7, 2022 The Company Secretary All Listed Companies Subject: Guidance Note on Regulation 13(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 - Investor Complaints Report Dear Sir/ Madam, As per regulation 13(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the listed entity shall file with the recognized stock exchange(s) on a quarterly basis, within twenty-one days from the end of each quarter, a statement giving the number of investor complaints pending at the beginning of the quarter, those received during the quarter, disposed of during the quarter and those remaining unresolved at the end of the quarter. The listed company receives complaints from different sources such SEBI SCORES, Exchange, hardcopies, or emails to officials handling investor grievances, etc. Over the period Exchange has observed that, No. of complaint received, resolved, and pending reported by the listed company is not corresponding to the complaints forwarded by Exchange and SEBI SCORES For example, company ‘A Limited’ has received 5 complaints through SCORES, 5 complaints from Exchange and 5 complaints are directly received by the Company through email / letter, of which resolved 3 SCORES, 2 Exchange and 5 directly received complaints during the quarter. Hence the total complaints received is 15, resolved are 10 complaints and pending are 5 complaints as on the end of the quarter. However, the no. of complaints disclosed in the quarterly Investor Complaint/s Report submitted to the Exchange is not in line with above. All investor complaints received by the company from different sources are to be considered while determining the number of complaints to be submitted in the quarterly report. In case of deviation observed, necessary actions may be initiated against the company. Confidential The listed companies are suggested to comply with the requirement of listing regulations and other applicable regulations, as amended from time to time, in letter and spirit. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Sailee Pawaskar Manager