1 CIRCULAR Department: Listing Circular Ref. No.: NSE/CML/2022/60 Date: December 19, 2022 The Company Secretary, All Listed Entities, Entities/Issuers who propose to list their securities with the Exchange. Subject: Submission of the Aadhar numbers in the Announcements / Offer Documents submitted to the Exchange Dear Sir/ Madam, As per Section 29(4) of the Aadhaar Act, 2016 (as amended in 2019) (hereinafter referred to as the “Aadhaar Act”), no Aadhaar number or demographic information or photograph collected or created under the Aadhaar Act is to be disclosed publicly, except for the purpose specified in the said Aadhaar Act. Further, the Acts and Rules governing the Organization/Institution that mandate the requirement of publishing Aadhaar information, shall be published in masked form. The Exchange has observed that: 1. Listed entities are disclosing certain Aadhar numbers/ Aadhar cards in their announcements specifically in the cases of newspaper publications where the clipping has other news lines related to Aadhar number. In such cases, entities should only disclose the newspaper clipping related to itself and should abstain from submitting the entire page of the newspaper containing other details. 2. Entities/Issuers proposing to list any of their securities with the Exchange are disclosing Aadhar numbers/ Aadhar related information in the draft offer documents/offer documents submitted to the Exchange. In this regard, kindly also note that Aadhar number/ Aadhar information of the promoters/others as required under the applicable SEBI regulations viz. SEBI (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018, SEBI (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021 etc. are to be provided to the Exchange separately and should not be disclosed in the draft offer document/offer document/any other public document. In view of the above, all listed entities/issuers proposing to list their securities with the Exchange, are hereby advised to strictly adhere to the aforesaid provisions of Aadhar Act and not disclose Aadhar number/Aadhar related information in any disclosure/ announcements/ any other public document made/submitted to the Exchange. You are requested to kindly take note of the contents of this circular and ensure compliance of the same with immediate effect. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Avishkar Naik Head – Listing Compliance