Kyle S. Hauptman Sworn In as PCAOB Board Member WASHINGTON, Aug. 10, 2026 The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) announced today that Kyle S. Hauptman was sworn in as a Board Member. The ceremony took place at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). "I am pleased to welcome Kyle to the PCAOB,” said PCAOB Chairman Demetrios (Jim) Logothetis. “His deep expertise and extensive experience will be invaluable as we advance our efforts to modernize the PCAOB and strengthen its role as a durable regulator prepared to meet the opportunities and challenges of the next 25 years and beyond.” Board Member Hauptman was appointed by the SEC on January 30, 2026. His current term will expire on October 24, 2029. “I’m honored to join the PCAOB and look forward to working with my colleagues to strengthen the capital markets,” said Board Member Hauptman. “Of particular interest will be the technological changes that are transforming both the audit industry and the PCAOB itself.” Prior to his swearing in as a PCAOB Board Member, Board Member Hauptman was the Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). He was originally appointed by President Donald J. Trump and confirmed by the U.S. Senate to serve as an NCUA Board Member in December 2020. He was elevated to Chairman of the NCUA in January 2025. Before joining the NCUA Board, Board Member Hauptman served as Senator Tom Cotton’s advisor on economic policy, as well as Staff Director of the Senate Banking Committee’s Subcommittee on Economic Policy. He has also held positions at the American Enterprise Institute, Jefferies and Co., and Lehman Brothers. Board Member Hauptman holds an MBA from Columbia Business School and a B.A. from University of California, Los Angeles. *****About the PCAOBThe PCAOB is a nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee the audits of public companies in order to protect investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. The PCAOB also oversees the audits of brokers and dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including compliance reports filed pursuant to federal securities laws. Related Topics About the PCAOB