Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/85 Date: December 08, 2023 To, The Company Secretary/ Compliance Officer, All Listed Companies Subject: Filing of Announcements pertaining to Loss of Share Certificate/Issue of Duplicate Share Certificate/Closure of Trading Window and Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (‘CIRP’) in XBRL format on NSE Electronic Application Processing System (NEAPS) platform. Further to the various Exchange circulars (Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/34 dated May 15, 2023, Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/28 dated March 31, 2023, Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/11 dated January 27, 2023) issued for filing of equity announcement in XBRL mode and other circulars seeking comments/feedback from listed entities on the captioned events (Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2023/40 dated June 14, 2023 and NSE/CML/2023/41 dated June 21, 2023), kindly note the facility for filings disclosures intimating the following announcements under SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI LODR’) will be made available in XBRL format with effect from December 09, 2023 (‘effective date’) 1) Loss of Share Certificate/Issue of Duplicate Share Certificate 2) Closure of Trading Window 3) Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process At the initial stage, the PDF filings will be considered by the Exchange as compliance under Regulation 30 of the SEBI LODR. Further, all listed entities would be required to also submit the filings in XBRL mode within 24 hours of submission of the said PDF filing. At a later stage (date to be informed separately) Exchange will shift to only XBRL submission. It may be noted that, XBRL utility for the above-mentioned subjects is available at the path COMPLIANCE >> Common XBRL Upload >> Equity Announcement- XBRL, basis the selection of the ‘Subject of Announcement’. Further, it may be noted that the aforesaid three events, will be made available in iXBRL format to the listed entities and it will be made available to the listed entities at the path Report >> Announcement XBRL Report iXBRL or Inline XBRL, is an open standard that enables a single document to provide both human-readable and structured, machine-readable data. iXBRL takes the HTML standard that is used to power the world’s web pages and embeds extra “tags” into it that give meaning to the figures and statements in a format that can be understood by a computer. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Ajit Mahadik Manager – Listing Compliance Please refer the below steps/path for submitting the announcements in XBRL format for the abovementioned subjects: 1. Post logging in the NEAPS portal (https://neaps.nseindia.com/NEWLISTINGCORP) - go to COMPLIANCE >> Common XBRL Upload 2. On the Common XBRL Upload, please select Equity Announcement-XBRL from the drop down under Module: 3. On clicking the Equity Announcement- XBRL, the user shall then select the Subject of the Announcement from the drop down: 4. On selection of the any respective subject, the user can download the XBRL utility for the said subject from the table below (“Download Offline Excel Utilities) and fill-in the utility and generate the XML file. For Duplicate/Loss For Trading Window For CIRP related events: 5. Once the XML is generated from the utility, fill-in the required details on the portal and click on the Upload XBRL File and complete the submission. In case any queries concerning the captioned subject, please reach out to the Announcements team at takeover@nse.co.in or on the contact details given on NEAPS platform. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Ajit Mahadik Manager – Listing Compliance