1 | 2023 Inspection Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants) (Headquartered in Lagos, Nigeria) October 24, 2024 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2024-170 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2023 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2023 Inspection and Historical Data by Inspection Year ................................... 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ........................... 8 Part I.C: Independence................................................................................................................ 11 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control ........................................................................ 12 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 2 2023 INSPECTION In the 2023 inspection of Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of public companies. We selected for review three audits of issuers with fiscal years ending in 2022. For each issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2023 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not necessarily constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work or of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on thescope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2023 INSPECTION AND HISTORICAL DATA BY INSPECTION YEAR The following information provides an overview of our 2023 inspection as well as data from the previous inspection. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 20232020 Firm data Total issuer audit clients in which the firm was the principal auditor 13 0 1 Total issuer audits in which the firm was not the principal auditor 0 0 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 2 1 1 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed3 1 Audits in which the firm was the principal auditor 3 1 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) 0 0 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies3 0 Percentage of audits with Part I.A deficiencies 100% 0% 1 Although the firm had no issuer audit clients at the outset of the inspection, the firm had issued at least one audit report with respect to an issuer since the firm’s registration with the PCAOB. 2 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement) or for the firm’s role in an issuer audit during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspection or, in cases where the firm has not issued an audit report in that period, since the prior inspection or since the firm’s registration with the PCAOB. Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 4 If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In many cases, the firm has performed remedial actions after the deficiency was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing additional audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR, or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — it does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2023 inspection and the previous inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2023 2020 Audit area Audits reviewedAudit areaAudits reviewed Revenue and related accounts 3 Accruals and other liabilities 1 Accruals and other liabilities 1 Equity and equity-related transactions 1 Inventory 1 Going concern 1 Goodwill and intangible assets 1 Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. Part I.B discusses certain deficiencies, if any, that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. Part I.C discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules, if any, related to maintaining independence. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 6 Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work supporting the firm’s opinion on the issuer’s financial statements. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A). Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies, taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR None Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer A Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue,the Statement of Cash Flows, and Journal Entries. This was the firm’s initial audit of this issuer. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a significant risk: The issuer entered into certain revenue arrangements during the year. The firm did not perform procedures, beyond comparisons to issuer-produced reports, to test this revenue, including testing the Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 7 valuation of certain aspects of revenue. (AS 2301.08 and .11; AS 2501.07) In addition, the firm did not evaluate the business purpose (or lack thereof) of these arrangements that appeared unusual due to their timing, size, or nature, including whether they may have been entered into to engage in fraudulent financial reporting or conceal misappropriation of assets given certain facts regarding the arrangements. (AS 2401.67) With respect to the Statement of Cash Flows: The firm did not perform any procedures to test the statement of cash flows. (AS 2301.08) With respect to Journal Entries: The firm did not identify and select journal entries and other adjustments for testing to address the potential for material misstatement due to fraud. (AS 2401.58) Issuer B – Consumer Discretionary Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue, Inventory, and Journal Entries. This was the firm’s initial audit of this issuer. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a significant risk: The firm did not perform procedures to test revenue, beyond tracing a sample of revenue transactions to issuer-prepared invoices. (AS 2301.08 and .11) With respect to Inventory: The firm did not perform procedures to test the existence of inventory, beyond comparing inventory counts from the issuer’s inventory records to records from the issuer’s warehouses. (AS 2510.09) In addition, the firm did not perform procedures to test the inventory reserves, beyond obtaining and reading a listing of obsolete items and the approval for the write off of certain inventory. (AS 2501.07) With respect to Journal Entries: The firm did not identify and select journal entries and other adjustments for testing to address the potential for material misstatement due to fraud. (AS 2401.58) Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 8 Issuer C Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue, Intangible Assets, and Journal Entries. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue: The firm did not perform procedures to test revenue, beyond tracing all revenue transactions to issuer- prepared invoices and evaluating the appropriateness of the issuer’s revenue recognition policy. (AS 2301.08) With respect to Intangible Assets: The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate the issuer’s conclusion that there were no indicators of potential impairment for intangible assets even though the firm was aware such conditions existed. (AS 2301.08; AS 2810.03) With respect to Journal Entries: The firm did not identify and select journal entries and other adjustments for testing to address the potential for material misstatement due to fraud. (AS 2401.58) Audits with a Single Deficiency None PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES This section of our report discusses certain deficiencies that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. As a result, the areas below were not necessarily reviewed on every audit. In some cases, we assess the firm’s compliance with specific PCAOB standards or rules on other audits that were not reviewed and include any instances of non- compliance below. The deficiencies below are presented in numerical order based on the PCAOB standard or rule with which the firm did not comply. We identified the following deficiencies: Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 9 In the three audits reviewed, the engagement quality reviewer did not complete their review, and as a result, the firm did not obtain the engagement quality reviewer’s concurring approval of issuance of the audit report. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant withAS 1220, Engagement Quality Review. In two of three audits reviewed, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to the critical accounting policies and practices and critical accounting estimates. In addition, in one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to certain critical accounting policies and practices and certain critical accounting estimates. In these instances, the firm was non- compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In the three audits reviewed, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to (1) significant accounting policies and practices and (2) the firm’s evaluation of the quality of the issuer’s financial reporting. In these instances, the firm was non- compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not make a required communication to the audit committee related to corrected misstatements. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not evaluate whether certain identified material misstatements resulted from control deficiencies and whether any such control deficiencies individually, or in combination, represented a material weakness or significant deficiency that required communication to management and the audit committee. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1305, Communications About Control Deficiencies in an Audit of Financial Statements. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not evaluate whether control deficiencies individually, or in combination, represented a material weakness or significant deficiency that required communication to management and the audit committee. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1305, Communications About Control Deficiencies in an Audit of Financial Statements. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not provide to management and the audit committee the required communications in writing of all material weaknesses identified during the audit. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1305, Communications About Control Deficiencies in an Audit of Financial Statements. In two of three audits, the firm did not hold a discussion among the key engagement team members about the potential for material misstatement due to fraud. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not identify and assess the risks of material misstatement at the assertion level for the significant accounts and disclosures it identified. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 10 In one of three audits reviewed, the firm did not evaluate certain factors when determining that there were no risks of material misstatement related to a significant account. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In the three audits reviewed, the firm did not presume that there was a fraud risk involving improper revenue recognition and did not have an appropriate rationale for how this presumption was overcome. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In the three audits reviewed, the firm did not identify a fraud risk related to the risk of management override of controls. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In one audit, the firm’s audit reports omitted one of the issuer’s financial statements and did not include the section title “Opinion on the Financial Statements.” In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. In the three audits reviewed, the engagement team performed procedures to determine whether or not matters were critical audit matters but, in performing those procedures, did not include certain matters that were communicated, or required to be communicated, to the audit committee and that related to accounts or disclosures that were material to the financial statements. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. These instances of non-compliance do not necessarily mean that other critical audit matters should have been communicated in the auditor’s report. In one of three audits reviewed, the engagement team determined that there were no critical audit matters, but did not include the required language, and the appropriate title, in the auditor’s report. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. In the three audits reviewed, the firm did not file one or more reports on Form AP by the relevant deadline. In addition, all of these reports on Form AP included inaccurate information regarding the opinion city. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. In the three audits reviewed, the firm’s independence communications with the audit committee inaccurately described the professional standards related to required communications. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3526, Communication with Audit Committees Concerning Independence. In the three audits reviewed, the firm did not sufficiently provide the audit committee the required independence communications because it did not affirm that it was independent. In addition, in two of these audits, the firm communicated that it was not aware of any relationships that may have been reasonably thought to bear on the independence of the firm Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 11 for the year under audit, rather than as of the date of the communication. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with PCAOB Rule 3526, Communication with Audit Committees Concerning Independence. PART I.C: INDEPENDENCE In the 2023 inspection, we did not identify, and the firm did not bring to our attention, any instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence.Although this section does not include any instances of potential non- compliance that we identified or the firm brought to our attention, there may be instances of non- compliance with SEC or PCAOB rules related to independence that were not identified through our procedures or the firm’s monitoring activities. While the firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance, the number, large or small, of firm-identified instances of potential non-compliance may be reflective of the size of the firm, including the number of associated firms; the design and effectiveness of the firm’s independence monitoring activities; and the size and/or complexity of the issuers it audits, including the number of affiliates of those issuers. Therefore, we caution against making any comparison of firm- identified instances of potential non-compliance across firms. Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | 12 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. Olayinka Oyebola & Co (Chartered Accountants), PCAOB Release No. 104-2024-170, October 24, 2024 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the Board provided the firm an opportunity to review and comment on a draft of this report. The firm did not provide a written response. A-1 |