Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12589 Case Name PCIT Vs Cadila Healthcare Limited (Gujarat High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Gujarat High Court Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); PCIT Vs Cadila Healthcare Limited (Gujarat High Court) Summary: The Gujarat High Court admitted the Revenue’s appeal under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, in the case of Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central) Vs Cadila Healthcare Limited for Assessment Year 2013-14 on questions concerning guarantee fee, interest on convertible loan, product registration expenditure, trademark and patent fees, research and development expenditure and computation of book profit under Section 115JB. The Court noted that questions relating to guarantee fee, interest on convertible loan, product registration expenditure, trademark registration and patent fee, expenses incurred outside the approved R&D facility under Section 35(2AB), and exclusion of Section 14A disallowance while computing book profit under Section 115JB were already admitted for consideration in Tax Appeal No.590 of 2022. Accordingly, questions A, B, C, D, F and H were admitted. In relation to Section 35(2AB), the Court relied upon its earlier decision in Banco Products India Ltd. Vs DCIT, which had followed the principles laid down in Claris Lifesciences Ltd. and the Delhi High Court decision in Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. Vs Union of India. The Court held that once the prescribed authority grants approval/recognition to the R&D facility, the deduction cannot be denied merely because the approval was granted in a subsequent year. In the present case, the assessee had applied for recognition before the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) on 21 June 2012, and the recognition was approved on 9 October 2013. The Court therefore held that the assessee was entitled to deduction under Section 35(2AB) with effect from Assessment Year 2013-14. The Revenue’s appeal was consequently dismissed in respect of questions E and G, while questions A, B, C, D, F and H were admitted for consideration. List of Cases Discussed / Relied Upon 1. Banco Products India Ltd. Vs DCIT, [2018] 405 ITR 318 (Guj.) 2. Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. Vs Union of India, [2017] 397 ITR 728 / 250 Taxman 113 / 84 taxmann.com 45 (Delhi) FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF GUJARAT HIGH COURT 1. Heard learned Senior Standing Counsel Mr.Varun K. Patel for the appellant-Revenue and learned Senior Advocate Mr.R.K.Patel assisted by learned advocate Mr.Darshan R. Patel for the respondent-assessee. 2. Learned Senior Standing Counsel Mr.Varun K. Patel for the appellant has tendered a draft amendment to change the name of the respondent in view of the Certificate issued by the Registrar of Companies for change of name with effect from 24th February, 2022. The same is allowed in terms of the draft. To be carried out forthwith. 3. The appellant-Revenue has filed this Appeal under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (for short ‘the Act’) proposing the following substantial questions of law arising out of the order of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Ahmedabad ‘D’ Bench, Ahmedabad (for short ‘the Tribunal’) dated 17th August, 2021 in ITA No.213/Ahd/2018 for Assessment Year 2013-14: [A] Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law the Appellate Tribunal’s decision is ex-facie perverse because Appellate Tribunal has erred in deleting the addition made on account of the guarantee fee charge of Rs.13,96,47,918/- by ignoring the Arms Length Price (ALP) determined by using external Comparable Uncontrolled Price (CUP) Method? [B] Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Appellate Tribunal was justified in deleting the addition made on account of interest on convertible loan to ‘Zydus International Private Ltd.’ of Rs.17,63,42,711/- by holding that the assessee still had the option to convert the same into equity? [C] Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Appellate Tribunal was justified in deleting the addition of Rs.21,07,52,058/- made on account of Product Registration Expenditure considering the same as revenue? [D] Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Appellate Tribunal was justified in deleting the addition of Rs. 6,95,33,042/- made on account of Trademark Registration & Patent Fee considering the same as revenue expense despite of the facts that they are not recurring the nature? [E] Whether on the circumstances of the case and in law, the Appellate Tribunal was justified in deleting the addition of Rs.22,64,38,000/- made u/s. 35(2AB) of the Act despite the fact that the same was not approved by the prescribed authority i.e. DSIR? [F] Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Appellate Tribunal was justified in deleting the addition of Rs.67,00,09,438/- made on account of expenses incurred outside the approved R & D facility w.r. to 35 [2AB] of the Act? [G] Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Appellate Tribunal was justified in allowing the depreciation of Rs.7,77,048/- on Hummer Car despite the fact that the same was in the name of the Director and there was no evidence to show that the same was used wholly and exclusively for the purpose of business, the provisions of the 32 were thereof not satisfied? [H] Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Appellate Tribunal was justified in excluding the disallowance made under section 14A while computing of Book Profit under Section 115JB ignoring the clause (f) of Explanation-1 to section 115JB(2)? 4. So far as question Nos. A, B, C, D, F and H are concerned, the similar questions are already admitted for consideration by this Court in Tax Appeal No.590 of 2022. Therefore, this Appeal is admitted qua question Nos.A, B, C, D, F and H. 5. So far as question No.E is concerned, the Tribunal has followed the decision of this Court in case of Banco Products India Ltd Versus DCIT reported in [2018] 405 ITR 318 (Guj.) wherein, in similar facts, this Court has held as under, regarding deduction under Section 35(2AB) of the Act: “8. The assessee has challenged this decision of the Tribunal on the basis of two judgments. One of this Court in case of Claris Lifesciences Ltd. (supra) already referred earlier and other of Delhi High Court in case of Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. v. Union of India [2017] 397 ITR 728/250 Taxman 113/84 taxmann.com 45 (Delhi). Revenue however contends that both these judgments are distinguishable on facts. It was canvassed that in case of Claris Lifesciences Ltd. (supra), the expenditure, application and approval, all three occurred in the same year which is not the case in the present appeal. With respect to Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (supra), it was canvassed that point of distinction according to the Revenue is that the application for approval was made in the same year during which the expenditure was incurred, may be order of approval was passed in the later year. 9. Section 35 of the Act Pertains to expenditure on scientific research. Subsection (2AB) thereof grants weighted deduction to a company engaged in the business of biotechnology or manufacture or production of any article or thing, except those specified in the Eleventh Schedule, where it incurs any expenditure on scientific research (excluding the expenditure in the nature of cost of any land or building) on in-house research and development facility as approved by the prescribed authority. At the relevant time, such deduction was one and one-half times of the expenditure incurred. Said section contains various conditions subject to which such deduction will be granted. However, the main requirements are that the expenditure should be on scientific research on in-house research and development facility as approved by the prescribed authority. As observed by this Court in case of Claris Lifesences Ltd. (supra) and Delhi High Court in case of Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (supra), this provision is aimed at encouraging in-house research and development facilities for specified purposes. The legislature recognised the weighted deduction on such expenditure. The approval of such facility by the prescribed authority is a prime condition. 10. In case of Claris Lifesciences Ltd. (supra), this Court examined a situation where the Tribunal had allowed the assessee’s claim of deduction under section 35(2AB) of the Act when such expenditure was incurred during the period prior to the date of approval by the prescribed authority. The Court noted with approval the conclusion of the Tribunal that the provision is made for giving a boost to research and development facilities in India and once the facility is approved, entire expenditure so incurred in developing the same has to be allowed by way of deduction. It may be that as pointed out by the Revenue, all events i.e. incurring of expenditure, applying for approval and grant of approval happened in the same financial year. However, this was not the basis on which the Court has confirmed the decision of the Tribunal. There is nothing in the said judgment to suggest that had these events fallen in different years, the view of the Court would have been any different. 11. Judgment of this Court in case of Claris Lifesciences Ltd. (supra) was followed by Delhi High Court in case of Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (supra) in order to grant the assessee’s claim of deduction under section 35(2AB) of the Act. The Court held that for availing deduction under section 35(2AB) of the Act, what is relevant is not the date of recognition or the cut-off date mentioned in the certificate of the prescribed authority or even the date of approval, but the existence of recognition. The Court observed as under: “41. Section 35(2AB) clearly provides that any expenditure incurred by a party on its R&D facility, except, insofar as it relates to land and building is liable to be allowed to be claimed as deduction (twice the amount of expenditure). A perusal of the scheme of the Act especially Sections 35(2AB), 35A and 35AB reveals in no uncertain terms, that the purpose behind these provisions is to provide impetus for research, development of new technologies, obtaining patent rights, copyrights and know-how.” 12. In view of above-referred two decisions and by applying the same to the facts on hand, we have no hesitation in allowing the assessee’s claim for deduction under section 35(2AB) of the Act. Shorn of any controversy, documents on record would suggest that at any rate, the assessee had applied for approval of research and development facility to the prescribed authority on 22.12.2006 and such approval was granted on 22.10.2008. The Assessing Officer and CIT (Appeals) restricted the assessee’s claim for deduction in relation to such expenditure which was incurred prior to 1.4.2008 on the ground that the approval was granted for two years between 1.4.2008 to 31.3.2010. Combined reading of the judgment of this Court in case of Claris Lifesciences Ltd. (supra) and judgment of Delhi High Court in case of Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (supra), would show that period during which the approval is granted is not relevant as long as such approval has been granted and expenditure has been incurred for the specified purpose. As noted, the provision is aimed at promoting development of in-house research and development facility which necessarily would require substantial expenditure which immediately may not yield desired results or could be co-related to generation of additional revenue. By the very nature of things, research and development is a hit and miss exercise. Much of the efforts, capital as well as human investment may go waste if the research is not successful. The legislature therefore, having granted special deduction for such expenditure, the same should be seen in light of the purpose for which it has been recognised. Research and development facility can be set up only after incurring substantial expenditure. The application for approval of such facility can be made only after setting up of the facility. Once an application is filed by the assessee to the prescribed authority, the assessee would have no control over when such application is processed and decided. Even if therefore, the application is complete in all respects and the assessee is otherwise eligible for grant of such approval, approval may take some time to come by. The claim for deduction cannot be defeated on the ground that such approval was granted in the year subsequent to the financial year in which the expenditure was incurred. No such indication was given by this Court in case of Claris Lifesciences Ltd. (supra), none appears from the judgment of the Delhi High Court in case of Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (supra).” 6. Applying the above ratio to the facts of the case, it is pertinent to note that the assessee made an application for recognition before the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (for short ‘the DSIR)’) on 21st June, 2012 which was approved on 9th October, 2013. Therefore, the assessee would be entitled to the deduction under Section 35(2AB) of the Act as per the aforesaid decision of this Court with effect from the year under consideration i.e. from Assessment Year 2013-14. 7. We therefore, dismiss the Appeal qua question No.E and G are concerned. 8. To be heard with Tax Appeal Nos.590 of 2022, 274 of 2018 and 995 of 2018. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under high court judgmentssection 115JBSection 14Asection 260Asection 35 Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,660 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Calcutta HC Allows Extension of ITC Rectification Time Under Section 16(5) September 7, 2026 Bombay HC Upholds Deduction for Scientifically Estimated Major Repairs Provision September 7, 2026 GST Appeal Filed Before Section 107 Order Is Passed Not Maintainable: GSTAT Chennai September 7, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax ITAT Chennai Rejects DR Objection Over Counsel’s CIC Appearance September 7, 2026 Bombay HC Upholds Deduction for Scientifically Estimated Major Repairs Provision September 7, 2026 Pune ITAT Restores ₹1.73-Crore Penalty U/s 271(1)(c) on Capital Expenditure Claim September 7, 2026 Pune ITAT Quashes Reassessment Over ₹1.47-Crore Deposits and u/s 80P Addition September 7, 2026 Cash System u/s 145(1) Accepted, Interest Nexus u/s 57(iii) Must Be Proved September 7, 2026 Wrong Approval Quashes Reassessment, Penalty U/s 270A: Hyderabad ITAT September 7, 2026