↓ Skip to Main Content Click Here For Best Books On Taxation & Law. Upto 60% Off On Select Titles. Free Shipping & Pay On Delivery! Click Here To Subscribe To Our Free Newsletter This section is now closed. Click here for new judgements (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); › › DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad) DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad) Posted on April 24, 2021 by editor COURT: ITAT Ahmedabad CORAM: Pradip Kumar Kedia (AM), Rajpal Yadav (JM) SECTION(S): 56(2)(viib) GENRE: Domestic Tax CATCH WORDS: amalgamation, deemed income COUNSEL: Nupur Shah, Virendra Ojha DATE: April 13, 2021 (Date of pronouncement) DATE: April 24, 2021 (Date of publication) AY: 2013-14 FILE: Click here to download the file in pdf format CITATION: S. 56(2) (viib): The object of s. 56(2)(viib) is to tax excessive share premium received unjustifiably by private companies on issue of shares without carrying underlying value. However, shares issued to shareholders of an amalgamating company in terms of a scheme of amalgamation does not fall within the sweep of the deeming provisions of s. 56(2) (viib). The so-called excess value of assets vested on amalgamation cannot be notionally termed as premium over the face value for the purposes of the deeming provision (AS-14 issued by the ICAI & CBDT Circular No 3/2012 dated 12-6-2012 referred) (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Income from other sources DCIT v. Ozone India Ltd.( IT.A. Nos. 2081/Ahd/2018 dated April 13, 2021 )(AY. 2013-14) 56(2)(viib) : Income from other Sources – Excess over Fair market Value of Shares – Deemed Income – Not applicable – shares issued under a scheme of amalgamation. Facts: The assessee company filed its return of income for AY 2013-14 in question which was subjected to scrutiny assessment. In the course of assessment proceedings, it was gathered by the AO that one M/s. Kalavir Estate Pvt. Ltd. (KEPL) amalgamated with the assessee company under the scheme of amalgamation. The object of amalgamation was stated to achieve better utilization of resources, higher return on capital, economy of scale, optimum utilization of available resources and effective control for better profitability. The scheme of amalgamation of KEPL with assessee company was approved by the Hon’ble Gujarat High Court vide order dated 7-9-2012 effective from 1-4-2012 whereby all the assets and liabilities of M/s. KEPL were vested with the assessee company as per scheme placed before the Hon’ble Court. Hence, on coming into effect of the scheme on 1-4-2012, all the assets except land and all the liabilities of KEPL were taken in the books of assessee at book value and land parcels were taken at revalued price. As stated, the transaction of amalgamation has been accounted under the ‘pooling of interest’ method as prescribed by the Accounting Statndard-AS-14 issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) consequent upon which the difference between net assets of KEPL vested with assessee company and value of shares of assessee company correspondingly issued was accounted for as capital receipts and treated as capital reserve. The excess value of net assets vis-à-vis corresponding value of shares issued towards consideration for amalgamation was thus credited in the books of assessee company as ‘capital reserve’. The AO noted that on the date of amalgamation, the issued and paid up capital of assessee company stood at Rs. 21,00,000/- divided into 2,10,000 equity shares of Rs. 10/- each and that of KEPL stood at Rs. 5,00,000/- divided into 50,000 equity-shares of Rs. 10/- each. Pursuant to scheme of amalgamation, shareholders of KEPL got 300 equity shares of assessee company for each share of KEPL towards consideration for transfer of its assets and liabilities. The AO observed that the amalgamated company i.e. assessee received assets worth Rs.60,26,55,864/- and liabilities worth Rs. 6,05,39,708/- of the amalgamating company i.e. KEPL. Thus, assessee received net assets worth Rs. 54,21,16,156/- against corresponding issue of shares having face value of Rs. 15,00,00,000/- to the shareholders of KEPL. The AO thus observed that assessee has received excess net asset worth Rs. 39,21,16,156/- on account of amalgamation which was credited by it as capital reserve of the amalgamated company. In the opinion of the AO, the excess value of assets so received by assessee company was liable for taxation in the hands of the assessee being excess consideration for issue of its share. HELD: The issue of shares at ‘face value’ by the amalgamated company (assessee) to the shareholders of amalgamating company in pursuance of scheme of amalgamation legally recognized in the Court of Law neither falls with scope & ambit of clause (viib) to section 56(2) of the Act, when tested on the touchstone of objects and purpose of such insertion (Memorandum Explaining Finance Bill, 2012 and CBDT Circular No. 3 of 2012 dated June 12, 2012) i.e. to deem unjustified premiums charged on issue of shares as taxable income; nor does it fall in its sweep when such deeming clause is subjected to interpretative process having regard to the scheme of the Act. , ‘A’ IN THE INCOME TAX APPELLATE TRIBUNAL “A” BENCH, AHMEDABAD (Convened through Virtual Court) BEFORE SHRI RAJPAL YADAV, VICE PRESIDENT AND SHRI PRADIP KUMAR KEDIA, ACCOUNTANT MEMBER . / I.T.A. Nos. 2081/Ahd/2018 WITH CROSS OBJECTION No. 103/Ahd/2019 ( / Assessment Year : 2013-14) DCIT / M/s. Ozone India Ltd. Circle 3(1)(2), Ahmedabad Vs. 301/1, Parshwa, Opp. Rajpath Club, S. G. Highway, Bodakdev, Ahmedabad . / . /PAN/GIR No. : AAACO9588N (Appellant / Respondent) .. (Respondent / Cross Objector) /Revenue by : Shri Virendra Ojha, CIT.D.R. /Assessee by : Ms. Nupur Shah, A.R. / Date of 03/03/2021 Hearing /Date of 13/04/2021 Pronouncement /O R D E R PER PRADIP KUMAR KEDIA – AM: The captioned appeal has been filed at the instance of the Revenue . The assessee has filed cross objection in the appeal of the Revenue against the order of the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals)-9, Ahmedabad (‘CIT(A)’ in short) dated 18.07.2018 arising I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 2 – in the assessment order dated 30.03.2016 passed by the Assessing Officer (AO) under s. 143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (the Act) concerning AY 2013-14. 2. The appeal of Revenue and cross objection of assessee emanates from common issue and thus disposed off together. 3. To begin with, we shall take up Revenue appeal for adjudication purposes. ITA No.2081/Ahd/2018 – Revenue’s appeal- AY 2013-14 4. Grounds of appeal raised by the Revenue read as under: “(a) The Ld.CIT(A) has erred in law and on facts in deleting the addition of Rs 43,99,66,156/- made by the assessing officer u/s 56(2)(viib) of the Act on account of difference of net asset value of Rs.54,21,16,156/- credited in the books without appreciating the factual backdrop of the case in which the addition was made by the Assessing Officer. (b) The Ld.CIT(A) has erred in law and on facts in not appreciating the fair market value of shares of assessee company @ Rs.6.81/- per share based on which addition was correctly made by the assessing officer. (c) The Ld CIT(A) has erred in law and on facts in deleting the addition of Rs 1,49,137/- made by assessing officer on account of disallowance of Architect fees attributable to the unsold inventory.” 5. Briefly stated, the assessee company filed its return of income for AY 2013-14 in question which was subjected to scrutiny assessment. In the course of assessment proceedings, it was gathered by the AO that one M/s. Kalavir Estate Pvt. Ltd. (KEPL) amalgamated with the assessee company under the scheme of amalgamation. The object of amalgamation was stated to achieve better utilization of resources, higher return on capital, economy of I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 3 – scale, optimum utilization of available resources and effective control for better profitability. The scheme of amalgamation of KEPL with assessee company was approved by the Hon’ble Gujarat High Court vide order dated 07.09.2012 effective from 01.04.2012 whereby all the assets and liabilities of M/s. KEPL were vested with the assessee company as per scheme placed before the Hon’ble Court. Hence, on coming into effect of the scheme on 01.04.2012, all the assets except land and all the liabilities of KEPL were taken in the books of assessee at book value and land parcels were taken at revalued price. As stated, the transaction of amalgamation has been accounted under the ‘pooling of interest’ method as prescribed by the Accounting Statndard-AS-14 issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) consequent upon which the difference between net assets of KEPL vested with assessee company and value of shares of assessee company correspondingl y issued was accounted for as capital receipts and treated as capital reserve. The excess value of net assets vis-à-vis corresponding value of shares issued towards consideration for amalgamation was thus credited in the books of assessee company as ‘capital reserve’. The assessee company has accounted for the land so acquired as ‘trading asset’ of the assessee company. 5.1 In this backdrop, the AO noted that on the date of amalgamation, the issued and paid up capital of assessee compan y stood at Rs.21,00,000/- divided into 2,10,000 equity shares of Rs.10/- each and that of KEPL stood at Rs.5,00,000/- divided into 50,000 equity-shares of Rs.10/- each. Pursuant to scheme of amalgamation, shareholders of KEPL got 300 equity shares of assessee company for each share of KEPL towards consideration for transfer of its assets and liabilities. The AO observed that the amalgamated company i.e. assessee received assets worth I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 4 – Rs.60,26,55,864/- and liabilities worth Rs.6,05,39,708/- of the amalgamating company i.e. KEPL. Thus, assessee received net assets worth Rs.54,21,16,156/- against corresponding issue of shares having face value of Rs.15,00,00,000/- to the shareholders of KEPL. The AO thus observed that assessee has received excess net asset worth Rs.39,21,16,156/- on account of amalgamation which was credited by it as capital reserve of the amalgamated company. 5.2 In the opinion of the AO, the excess value of assets so received by assessee company was liable for taxation in the hands of the assessee being excess consideration for issue of its share. A show cause was accordingly issued and reply thereon filed by the assessee was also recorded. However, the AO did not find merit in the defense propagated by the assessee in its reply. The AO observed that the accounting treatment given by the assessee is in departure with AS-14 issued by the ICAI. The AO simultaneously observed that the assessee is liable to tax on excess consideration received qua face value of shares issued under the head ‘income from other sources’ in terms of s.56(2)(viib) of the Act. It was thus essentially observed that the aggregate consideration in the form of net assets (i.e. total assets minus total liabilities acquired) received by the assessee company for issue of its shares which exceeds its fair value is liable to tax in terms of Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act. For determination of fair value of shares of issuing company i.e. assessee, the AO resorted to Rule 11UA of the Income Tax Rules. The fair value was computed at Rs.6.81 per share as against the face value of Rs.10/- per share issued to KEPL on amalgamation as noted above. The total fair market value of shares issued to shareholders of KEPL was consequently worked out at Rs.10,21,50,000/- (1,50,00,000 x 6.81). The AO thus concluded that on amalgamation, the assessee is benefitted by receiving net consideration worth I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 5 – Rs.54,21,16,156/- in the form of excess value of assets of KEPL against which shares carrying intrinsic value Rs.10,21,50,000/- (face value of Rs.15Crore) were issued to the shareholders of KEPL i.e. amalgamating company. Consequently, the AO was of the opinion that assessee is benefitted by surplus money worth numerically worked out at Rs.43,99,66,156/- on such amalgamation for which the assessee is susceptible to taxation under s.56(2)(viib) of the Act. 5.3 A reference under s.144A of the Act was made to the superior authority i.e. Addl. CIT for issuing suitable directions in this regard. On reference so made, the Addl. Commissioner of Income Tax commenced proceedings under s.144A of the Act and ultimatel y held that Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act is triggered in the facts of the case on the excess consideration/asset worth received by the assessee company in lieu of corresponding issue of shares. The Addl. CIT consequently directed the AO to cover the excess consideration so received as income in the ambit of taxation on the touchstone of Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act. The taxable income of the assessee was consequently increased to the extent of Rs.43,99,66,156/- towards alleged excess consideration. 6. Aggrieved by the additions made by the AO under the shelter of Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act on account of alleged excess consideration received by the assessee in the form of assets and liabilities of amalgamating company over fair market value of shares issued to KEPL, the assessee preferred appeal before the CIT(A). The CIT(A) in the course of the appellate proceedings before him, took note of the observations made by the AO as well as the explanations and legal contentions made on behalf of the assessee for inapplicability of Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act in the I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 6 – facts of the case. The CIT(A) found himself in agreement with the detailed submissions made by the assessee on inapplicability of s.56(2)(viib) of the Act in the facts of the case. Consequently, the CIT(A) reversed the action of AO and deleted the impugned additions. The relevant operative para of the order of the CIT(A) is reproduced hereunder: “4.7. I have considered the assessment order and arguments of the appellant. The appellant company has issued 1.5 lac shares to the shareholders of M/s. Kalavir Estate Pvt. Ltd. as per the amalgamation scheme approved by Honourable High Court. The shares have been issued at the face value of Rs. 107- per share in the ratio of 1 to 300 shares held by the shareholders in the amalgamating company. The relevant clause of scheme of amalgamation as approved by Honourable Gujarat High Court vide order dated 07/09/2012 in company petition No. 89 of 2012 is as under:- “Clause – 9 Upon the transfer of undertaking of KEPL to OIL and the vesting of the said assets and liabilities and the amalgamation becoming effective in terms of this Scheme, then, in consideration of the amalgamation and subject to the provisions of this Scheme, OIL, shall, without any further act, application and deed, issue and allot to the, equity shareholders of KEPL 300 equity shares in OIL of Rs. 10/- each, credited as fully paid-up in the capital of OIL, for every equity shares of the face value of Rs. 10/- each held by the shareholders in KEPL” 4.8. The Clause – 10 of the scheme of amalgamation for accounting of assets and liabilities of M/s. Kalavir Estate Pvt. Ltd. (KEPL) in the appellant company (OIL) has been mentioned as under: – “10.1. Upon the coming into effect of the scheme, OIL shall record all assets (except land) and liabilities vested in OIL pursuant to the scheme at their book values. The OIL shall record in its books the fair market value of the land with resultant corresponding accounting effects as per GAAP and Accounting Standard (AS)-14. 10.2. OIL shall credit to its Share Capital Account in its books of account the aggregate face value of the new shares issued by it to the members of KEPL pursuant to this Scheme”. I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 7 – The appellant company has discharged the consideration of amalgamation by issuing 1.5 lac equity shares of face value of Rs. 10/- each as per the amalgamation scheme. The AO and Addl. CIT have invoked the provisions of section 56(2) (viib) on the issue of share without appreciating the intent and letter of section 56(2)(viib). Section 56(2)(viib) has been introduced by the Finance Act, 2012 w.e.f. 01/04/2013 to deter the generation and use of unaccounted money and taxing the share premium in excess of market value which is evident from Honourable Finance Minister’s budget speech at the time of introduction of section 56(2)(viib). The explanatory memorandum to the provisions of Finance Bill 2012 and Finance Act, 2012 has explained the provisions as under :- “SHARE PREMIUM IN EXCESS OF FAIR MARKET VALUE TO BE TAKEN AS INCOME : Section 56(2) provides specific category of income that shall be chargeable to income tax under the head income from other sources. It is proposed to insert a new clause in Section 56(2). The new clause will apply where a company not being a company in its public are substantially interested receives in any previous year from any person being a resident any consideration for issue of shares, in such a case, if the consideration received for the issue of shares exceeds the face value of such shares, the aggregate consideration received for such share as exceeds the fair market value of the share shall be chargeable to income tax under the head income from other sources….” It is therefore, legislative intent to cover the cases of closely held company who receives disproportionate amount while issuing shares over and above the face value of share by way of share premium, in the instant case, shares have been issued at the face value and there is no share premium received, therefore, there is no question of applicability of section 56(2)(viib). In fact, in the scheme of amalgamation, consideration is paid by the amalgamated company in the form of issue of share capita! rather than consideration being received by the appellant company as understood by the AO / Addl. CIT. The persons to whom shares have been allotted have not paid anything for allotment of shares. The shares have been allotted in consideration of their shareholding in. the amalgamating company. 4.9. Section 2(1B) of Income Tax Act, 1961 defines the meaning of amalgamation as merger of one or more company with another company or merger of two or more company to form one company in such a manner that – I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 8 – 1) All the property of the amalgamating company or companies immediately before the amalgamation becomes the property of the amalgamated company by virtue of the amalgamation. (2) All the liabilities of the amalgamating company or companies immediately before the amalgamation becomes the liabilities of the amalgamated company by virtue of the amalgamation. (3) Shareholders holding at least three-fourths in value of the shares in the amalgamating company or companies (other than shares already held therein immediately before the amalgamated company or its nominee) becomes the shareholders of the amalgamated company by virtue of the amalgamation. 4.10. The Accounting Standard – 14 specifically deals with the accounting for amalgamation and treatment of any result in difference arising on account of amalgamation in the books of transferre company. Based on the proprietary of the transaction, the standard classifies the amalgamation as under:- • All assets arid liabilities of the transferor company become, after amalgamation, the assets, and liabilities of the transferee company. • Shareholders holding not less than 90% of the face value of the equity shares of the transferor company (other than the equity shares already held therein, immediately before amalgamation by the transferee company or its subsidiaries or their nominees) become equity shareholders of the transferee company by virtue of amalgamation. • The consideration is discharged by the transferee company wholly by the issue of equity shares only, except that cash may be paid in respect of any fractional shares. As per the section 2(1B) of the I. T. Act, 1961 and Accounting Standard – 14, the shareholders of amalgamating company become shareholders of appellant company by virtue of amalgamation and the consideration is to be discharged by the amalgamated appellant company by issue of share but not the other way around as understood by the AO. 4.11. The appellant company has received assets of Rs.6,10,39,708/- as per book value of M/s. Kalavir Estate Pvt. Ltd. along with its liability on amalgamation. The amalgamating I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 9 – company has transferred all assets as per book value except the land of Rs.5.38 crore which was revalued at Rs.59.5 crore and accounted at market value. The amalgamated company had assets over liability of only Rs.8,59,449/- in the form of share capital and reserve and surplus at the time of amalgamation. The capital account reserve of Rs.39,21,16,156/- was credited on account of revaluation of land as balancing figure as per the scheme of amalgamation and Accounting Standard – 14. Capital reserve account which is notional by no stretch of imagination can be called as a share premium or consideration for issue of share. Therefore, section 56(2) (viib) has no applicability in the case of amalgamation on issue of shares at face value. 4.12. It is evident from Para – 4 of the assessment order that AO had initially proposed to tax the capital reserve of Rs.39,21,16,1567- on account of amalgamation, but subsequently invoked section 56(2) (viib) of the I. T. Act, 1961. I have examined the issue of taxability on revaluation of land and credit of capital reserve account as a balancing figure in the case of amalgamation from this point as well. Appellant company but for the scheme of amalgamation approved by Honourable High Court transferring all assets except land at book value, was required to transfer all-assets including land at book value as per pooling of interest method prescribed in AS-14. In that case, assets over liability of amalgamating company would have been only Rs.8,59,449/- as against Rs.54,21,16,156/- accounted by appellant company which became the basis for invocation of Section 56(2) (viib) by AO. Therefore, the net asset over liability of Rs.54,21,16,156/- of amalgamating company is only due to revaluation of land and for accounting purposes, as land of book value of Rs.5.38 crore has been revalued at Rs.59.55 crore and taken as stock in trade. The Honourable Supreme Court in the case of Chain Rup Sampatram Vs. CIT [224 ITR 481] and CIT Vs. Hind Construction Ltd. [83 ITR 211] has held that putting the stock at market value does not and cannot bring in any real profit which is necessary for taxing the income. The Honourable Supreme Court in the case of CIT Vs. Birla Gwalior Pvt. Ltd. [89 ITR 266] and CIT, Bombay City 1 Vs. Shoorji Vallabhdas & Co. in 46 ITR 144 has laid down that it is the real income which is taxable under the Income Tax Act and not the notional one like on revaluation of assets. The Honourable Madras High Court in the case of CIT Vs. CIT Vs. M.CT.M Corporation Pvt. Ltd. [221 ITR 524] relying on the decision of Honourable Gujarat High Court in the case of CIT Vs. Leena Sarabhai [221 ITR 520] has held that in the scheme of amalgamation, shares are issued in lieu of shareholding in amalgamating company, and therefore, there is no tax implication:- I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 10 – “8. In the case of CIT vs. Leena Sarabhai (1996) 221 ITR 520 (Guj), the assessee was a holder of shares in an amalgamating company. By a scheme of amalgamation, the assets of the amalgamating company as also its liabilities were transferred to the amalgamated company, which in turn, was obliged to issue and allot to the shareholders of the amalgamating company one equity share of the face value of Rs. 100 and two fractional certificates, each representing entitlement of l/10th of one equity share and one 11% redeemable bond of the face value of Rs. 100 in respect of one equity share of the amalgamating company. On these facts on a reference, the Gujarat High Court was requested to render its opinion on the question whether on amalgamation of a company, when the assessee received shares and bonds of the amalgamated company in lieu of her shareholding in the amalgamating company, it was a transfer as contemplated under s.2(47). In view of a letter from the CIT stating that the Department in a similar case belonging to the same group had accepted that where the assessees had received shares and bonds because of amalgamation there was no transfer within the meaning of s.2(47), it was held that in the present case also there is no transfer as contemplated under s. 2(47) of the Act. Thus, according to the facts arising in that case, the Department accepted that whenever there is amalgamation of the two companies, there is no transfer and the question of levying capital gain tax does not arise.’ The Honourable Mumbai Tribunal in the case of Makers Development Services Pvt. Ltd. Vs. Dy. CIT [40 ITD 185] has held that where the stock in trade was revalued on amalgamation and acquired by the amalgamated company at higher value, in absence of any specific provision of tax, there will not be any tax implication on such notional gain. The Income Tax Act has been subsequently amended to tax the revaluation of assets on amalgamation by inserting a new section 43C by Finance Act, 1988 which provided that where an asset acquired under the scheme of amalgamation is sold by an amalgamated company as its stock in trade, then in computing the business income, the cost of acquisition of such stock in trade shall be the cost of acquisition in the land of amalgamating company. Therefore, the revaluation of land does not attract tax at the time of amalgamation, but would be taxed at the time of its disposal. 4.13. In view of the above, the AO was not justified to invoke section 56(2)(viib) ‘on issue of shares at face value to the shareholders of the amalgamating company as per the scheme of amalgamation approved by Honourable High Court. The addition made by the AO, is therefore, deleted. I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 11 – The ground of appeal is accordingly allowed.” 7. The Revenue, in the captioned appeal, has sought to impugn the action of CIT(A) towards reversal of additions. 8. The learned DR for the Revenue relied upon the order of the AO passed in terms of directions of Addl.CIT issued under s.144A of the Act and submitted that the assessee is clearly benefitted b y the scheme of amalgamation and received excess consideration by way of net assets against issue of shares of its company in favour of the shareholders of amalgamating company KEPL. The learned DR for the Revenue quipped that the benefit by way of excess consideration so received and quantified by AO apparently falls within the sweep of Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act and the CIT(A) has clearly mis-directed himself in law and on facts in reversal of the additions. 9. The learned AR for the assessee, on the other hand, strongl y defended the conclusion of the CIT(A) and submitted that the AO has grossly misconstrued the letter as well as spirit of Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act. It was submitted that a Court supervised amalgamation where shares of assessee company were issued to shareholders of amalgamating company in terms of scheme of amalgamation do not fall within the sweep of deeming provisions of s. 56(2)(viib) of the Act. References were made to the provisions of s.56(2)(viib) of the Act, the scheme of amalgamation approved by Hon’ble High Court as well as AS-14 issued by ICAI which shall be dealt with as and where considered expedient in the succeeding paragraphs. I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 12 – 9.1 It was contended that so called excess value of assets vested on amalgamation cannot be notionally termed as premium over face value for the purposes of deeming provision. It was contended that another deeming fiction cannot be added to the existing fiction without express consent of the statute. 9.2 In essence, it was contended that the plain language of deeming fiction in s.56(2)(viib) of the Act does not permit the Revenue to cover the impugned transactions arising from amalgamation within its sweep. 9.3 It was contended that as rightly observed by the CIT(A), in terms of section 2(1B) of the I.T. Act,1961 and AS-14 issued by ICAI, the shareholders of amalagamating co. become shareholders of assessee co. by virtue of amalgamation and the consideration is to be discharged by the amalgamated co. (Assessee) by issue of its shares and not other way round where the subscriber of the shares pays money for subscription to the issuer company. 9.4 It was thus asserted that the CIT(A) has rightly deleted the wrongly fastened additions after full analysis of law and facts involved. He accordingly submitted that no interference with the first appellate order is called for. 10. We have dispassionately considered the rival submissions and perused the assessment order as well as first appellate order. The documents referred and relied upon has been taken cognizance in terms of Rule 18(6) of the Income Tax(Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 1963. 10.1 In the case in hand, the short question that arises in essence is whether the shares received by the amalgamating company in I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 13 – consideration of vesting of its assets, liabilities and undertaking in the amalgamated company pursuant to scheme of amalgamation is hit by the deeming provisions of Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act in the facts of the present case? 10.2 The AO has made impugned additions towards excess consideration solely under S. 56(2)(viib) in terms of approval granted by the Addl. CIT on reference made under S. 144A of the Act. Hence, no other point such as cursory allegation of violation of AS-14 of ICAI etc. needs our indulgence in isolation for adjudication of controversy. To address the issue, it may be pertinent to reproduce the provision of section 56(2)(viib) for an easy reference: “(viib)where a company, not being a company in which the public are substantially interested, receives, in any previous year, from any person being a resident, any consideration for issue of shares that exceeds the face value of such shares, the aggregate consideration received for such shares as exceeds the fair market value of the shares: Provided that this clause shall not apply where the consideration for issue of shares is received– (i ) by a venture capital undertaking from a venture capital company or a venture capital fund; or (ii) by a company from a class or classes of pers ons as may be notified by the Central Government in this behalf, Explanation.–For the purposes of this claus e,– (a) the fair market val ue of the shares shall be the value– (i ) as may be determined in accordance wi th such method as may be pres cribed; or (ii) as may be substanti ated by the company to the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer, based on the value, on the date of issue of shares , of its assets, including intangible assets being goodwill, know- how, patents, copyr ights, trademar ks, l icences, franchises or any other business or commercial rights of similar natur e, I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 14 – whichever is higher; (b) “venture capital company”, “venture capital fund” and “venture capital undertaking” shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in clause (a), clause (b) and clause (c) of [Explanation] to clause (23FB) of section 10;] ” 10.3 In the instant case, pursuant to amalgamation, all assets, liabilities, undertaking of the amalgamating company (KEPL) are agreed to be vested in the amalgamated company( the Assessee) as a going concern. The amalgamated company has issued 300 equity shares of its company at face value for each shares of amalgamating company in consideration of such vesting of assets, liabilities etc. as per the scheme of amalgamation duly approved by the Jurisdictional High Court. As a result, shares worth Rs. 15 crore of the amalgamated co. (assessee co.) were issued against the vesting of assets etc. The assessing officer observed that the value of net assets (assets less liabilities) vested in the amalgamated compan y under the scheme stands at Rs. 54,21,16,156 against which shares worth Rs. 15 crore were issued by it for such acquisition. The difference between the value of assets and corresponding shares issued amounting to Rs.39,21,16,156/- credited by the assessee co.( amalgamated co.) to its capital reserve without any payment of taxes triggered the cause of action for the AO. In the course of assessment, the AO further found on a incisive verification that the intrinsic value of share of amalgamated co. issued at face value of Rs. 10 stands at Rs. 6.81 per shares only. The AO accordingly noted that the share of amalgamated co. so issued carries worth Rs. 10.22 crores only( 1,50,00,000 *6.81= 10,21,50,000) as against the net assets acquired Rs. 54.21 crore. The AO after making reference to Addl. CIT under S. 144A has brought the difference of Rs. 43.99 crore within the ambit of taxable income with the aid of deeming I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 15 – provision of S. 56(2)(viib) of the Act and increased the assessed income to that extent. 10.4 In the backdrop of facts capsuled above, it is the contention of the assessee that impugned transaction of vesting of assets of amalgamated co. in exchange of issue of shares of assessee co. at face value neither matches the essential ingredients of S. 56(viib) of the Act nor is the transaction carried out pursuant to approved scheme, in conformity of the objects and purposes of insertion of section 56(viib) of the Act. It is further contended that applicabilit y of deeming clause is unfounded on giving schematic interpretation to the language employed. The revenue on the other hand seeks to support the action of AO and essentially contends that newl y inserted S. 56(2)(viib) was introduced with an object to inter alia plug the present situation where consideration received in kind (b y way of vesting of assets of amalgamated co.) is far higher than the face value of corresponding shares issued in lieu of such excess value of assets vested. 10.5 The interpretation of S. 56(viib) qua the facts of the present case is in controversy. S. 56(2) deems certain income chargeable to income tax under the head ‘income from other sources’. Finance Act 2012 has, understandably, inserted clause (viib) with effect from 1- 4-2013(assessment year 2013-14) to include consideration received in excess of face value of shares issued i.e. ‘share premium’ received by an issuing company as it exceeds the fair market value of shares as its income chargeable under the head ‘income from other sources’. On a plain reading, two things immediately emerges from the newly inserted provision (i) consideration which is taxable is the one which exceeds face value of shares issued (ii) in the event of shares issued at consideration above face value, the same need to I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 16 – be compared with fair market value to be determined as per sub- clause(a) appended thereto. The Assessee in the present case, is not found to have issued shares at value more than face value at the first instance as repeatedly exhorted on behalf of the assessee. 10.6 To decipher the true purport of iteration of law in the context and object for insertion of the provision, it may be useful to refer to the explanations given at the time of enactment of the provision. Explanatory Memorandum to Finance Bill, 2012 Share premium in excess of the fair market value to be treated as income Section 56(2) provides for the specific category of incomes that shall be chargeable to income-tax under the head “Income from other sources”. It is proposed to insert a new clause in section 56(2). The new clause will apply where a company, not being a company in which the public are substantially interested, receives, in any previous year, from any person being a resident, any consideration for issue of shares. In such a case if the consideration received for issue of shares exceeds the face value of such shares, the aggregate consideration received for such shares as exceeds the fair market value of the shares shall be chargeable to income tax under the head “Income from other sources. However, this provision shall not apply where the consideration for issue of shares is received by a venture capital undertaking from a venture capital company or a venture capital fund. Further, it is also proposed to provide the company an opportunity to substantiate its claim regarding the fair market value. Accordingly, it is proposed that the fair market value of the shares shall be the higher of the value– (i) as may be determined in accordance with the method as may be prescribed; or (ii) as may be substantiated by the company to the satisfaction of the Assessing Officer, based on the value of its assets, including intangible assets, being goodwill, know-how, patents, copyrights, trademarks, licences, franchises or any other business or commercial rights of similar nature. I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 17 – 10.7 The budget speech of the Hon’ble Finance Minister Mr. Pranab Mukherjee on 16/03/2012 in para 155 concerning Section 56(2)(viib) may also be quoted to understand the object behind the insertion. I propose a series of measures to deter the generation and use of unaccounted money. To this end, I propose —– Increasing the onus of proof on closely held companies for funds received from shareholders as well as taxing share premium in excess of fair market value 10.8 The Circular of the Department being a contemporaneous exposition may also serve as useful guide to understand the true intent of S. 56(2)(viib) of the Act. The relevant text of CBDT circular no, 3/2012 dated 12-6-2012 in ths regard is reproduced hereunder: Share premium in excess of fair market value to be treated as income In the Finance Bill, 2012, it had been proposed [section 56(2), as sub-clause [(viib)] that in case of a company, not being a company in which the public are substantially interested, which receives, in any previous year, from any person being a resident, any consideration for issue of shares and the consideration received for issue of such shares exceeds the face value of such shares, then the aggregate consideration received for such shares as exceeds the fair market value of the shares shall be chargeable to income tax. An exemption was provided in a case where the consideration for issue of shares is received by a venture capital undertaking from a venture capital company or a venture capital fund. (i) It has now been further provided that such excess share premium is included in the definition of “income” under sub-clause (xvi) of clause (24) of section 2. (ii) Considering that the proposed amendment may cause avoidable difficulty to investors who invest in start-ups where the fair market value may not be determined accurately, it is proposed to provide an exemption to any other class of investors as may be notified by the Central Government. I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 18 – These amendments will take effect from 1st April, 2013 and will, accordingly, apply in relation to the assessment year 2013-14 and subsequent assessment years. 10.9 When the clause in Section 56(2)(viib) of the Act is read in tandem with elucidations provided in CBDT Circular; Finance Ministers’ speech in Parliament disclosing his intentions behind such insertion and also Memorandum explaining Finance Bill, it appears that whole thrust for such insertion is to bring measures to tax hefty or excessive share premium received unjustifiably by private companies on issue of shares without carrying underlying value to support such uncalled for premium and thereby enriching itself without paying taxes legitimately due to them. It also seems that subscription to the shares issued by a company at a substantial premium (not necessarily backed by a valuation justif ying the premium) was supposedly resorted to convert unaccounted money. The extant framework of law were not found sufficient by the legislature to curb such practices. Earlier attempts to tax such excessive receipts in the garb of share premium by private cos. did not arguably fructify. The provision was inserted to change the landscape for charging premium to tax of capital nature. 10.10 Section 56(2)(viib) creates a deeming fiction to imagine and fictionally convert a capital receipt into revenue income. It is well entrenched by the body of case laws that while giving effect to such legal fictions, all facts and circumstances thereto and inevitable corollaries thereof have to be assumed. In CIT vs. Mother India Refrigeration (P) Ltd. (1985) 155 ITR 711, the Hon’ble Supreme Court has held that the legal fictions are only for a definite purpose and they are limited to the purpose for which they are created and should not be extended beyond the legitimate field. Thus, a deeming fiction I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 19 – cannot be stretched beyond its purpose and import another fiction in it. 10.11 In the light of understanding developed on object and purpose of the deeming clause, as discussed above, the provisions of Section 56(viib), would not come to motion where the Assessee company as admittedly not charged any premium at all and the shares were issued at face value. 11. However, We have examined the issue from yet another perspective discussed below 11.1 It may be possibly argued that Section 56(2)(viib) does not oust its applicability in the event of shares issued pursuant to amalgamation. The amalgamation is a compromise or arrangement between the parties, which inter alia includes the amalgamated company issuing the shares and the shareholders of the amalgamating company, which is supervised by the Court, in terms of the Companies Act. In other words, there is an agreement or arrangement between the amalgamated company issuing the shares and the shareholders of the amalgamating company. The clause contemplates the issue of shares and the receipt of consideration from a resident person and it is fulfilled on amalgamation. This perspective seeks to cover the issue of shares arising from amalgamation with equal measure. 11.2 In contrast, the applicability of the clause in the case of amalgamation may be equally looked from a little different perspective as well. In amalgamation, the issue of shares is made by inviting subscription from the persons to whom offer is made. The issue of shares is to give effect to the amalgamation, as per mutual I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 20 – agreement and the Court order. In other words, it may be argued that the issue of shares does not trigger any consideration and in converse, the obligation to give consideration, triggers issue of shares. Secondly, the clause contemplates ‘receipt’ of the consideration for the shares from a resident person. In other words, it contemplates a transaction between a resident person and the company issuing shares. In the case of an amalgamation, the consideration, which would be undertaking along with all its assets and liabilities is in the form of vesting by the amalgamating company, whereas the shares are issued to its shareholders. Thus, it is, in effect, a tripartite arrangement between (i) amalgamated co. (ii) amalgamating co. (iii) the shareholders of amalgamating co.. Such tripartite arrangements in amalgamation cases are not contemplated in the deeming clause in question. 11.3 There is yet another perspective to dwell upon. As per the proviso to the clause, it does not apply ‘to the consideration for issue of shares by a venture capital undertaking(VCU) from a venture capital company(VCC) or a venture capital fund(VCF)’. The proviso implies that there should issue of shares directly by the company to the subscriber, obviously, for a consideration. In other words, it contemplates a bilateral transaction. Further, it also contemplates a transaction in the nature of issue of shares at the instance of the company on its own and it does not contemplate a transaction in the nature of issue of shares for discharging the consideration or issue of shares obligated pursuant amalgamation etc. If a view is adopted that the transaction can also apply to amalgamation etc. then, in that case, if there is amalgamation by and between venture capital undertakings, the provision would possibly apply inconsistent with the intent of the legislature to exclude VCUs etc. If the shareholders are regarded as the persons I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 21 – providing consideration in the context, they could include VCC or VCF or even notified persons or non-residents along with other resident persons. Such a situation contradicts in the intent of the legislature expressed in the clause. Hence, in terms of proviso, the clause cannot apply in the case of amalgamation etc. 11.4 We may also look at the scheme of the Act in totality for contextual understanding of the issue. The Legislature has contemplated that there arises ‘transfer’ of shares by the shareholders of amalgamating company in consideration of the allotment of shares by the amalgamated company and consequentl y with a view to neutralize tax effect, the Act provides for suitable exclusion/ exemption, from the ambit of expression ‘transfer’, under section 47(vii) which is also of deeming nature. In other words, as per the provisions of the Act, the consideration for issue of shares by the amalgamated company, in so far as the shareholder is concerned, is the shares held in the amalgamated company by way of transfer (except for the saving clause in s.47(vii) of the Act). A bare issue of shares contemplated in S. 56(viib) thus cannot be equated with a situation of transfer gathered from an intent implicit in S. 47(vii). Thus, the consideration and the issue of shares envisaged by section 56(2)(viib) is not found compatible with scheme enacted, when seen from the perspective of revenue. 12. To summarise, in our view, the issue of shares at ‘face value’ by the amalgamated company (assessee) to the shareholders of amalgamating company in pursuance of scheme of amalgamation legally recognized in the Court of Law neither falls with scope & ambit of clause (viib) to S. 56(2), when tested on the touchstone of objects and purpose of such insertion i.e. to deem unjustified premiums charged on issue of shares as taxable income; nor does it I T A N o . 2 0 8 1 / Ah d / 1 8 wi t h C O N o . 1 0 3 / Ah d / 1 9 ( M / s . O z o n e In d i a L t d . ) A. Y . 2 0 1 3 – 1 4 – 22 – fall in its sweep when such deeming clause is subjected to interpretative process having regard to the scheme of the Act. 13. In the wake of above delineation, we see no error in the conclusion drawn by the CIT(A) in this regard. The CIT(A) in our view, has rightly found inapplicability of S. 56(viib) in the facts of the present case. We thus decline to interfere with the conclusion so drawn by the CIT(A) whose order is under challenge by the revenue. Similarly, the cross objection filed by the Assessee which merel y seeks to support the action of CIT(A) also does not call for separate adjudication and is infructuous. 14. In the result, the appeal of the revenue as well as cross objection of the Assessee is dismissed. This Order pronounced on 13/04/2021 Sd/- Sd/- (RAJPAL YADAV) (PRADIP KUMAR KEDIA) VICE PRESIDENT ACCOUNTANT MEMBER Ah med ab ad : Da ted 1 3 /0 4 /2 0 2 1 Share this: Share on X (Opens in new window) X Share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Related Judgements Bajrang Lal Naredi vs. ITO (ITAT Ranchi) It is not in dispute that purchase transactions of immovable property were carried out in FY 2011-12 for which full consideration was also parted with the seller. Mere registration at later date would not cover a transaction already executed in the earlier years and substantial obligations have already been… ACIT vs. Sunland Metal Recycling (ITAT Mumbai) The Assessing Officer has not given any finding that the sale consideration disclosed by the assessee is not actual amount received as per the agreement of sale. The addition was made by invoking the deeming provisions of section 50C whereby the full value of consideration was adopted as per… DCIT vs. KDA Enterprises Pvt. Ltd (ITAT Mumbai) Three elements are essential in determining whether or not a gift has been made, a) delivery. b) donative intent,’ and c) acceptance by the donee. Companies are competent to make and receive gifts and natural love and affection are not necessary requirement. Only requirement for company is to make… Computer Engineering Services India (P) Ltd vs. ACIT (ITAT Delhi) For making the assessment, it is absolutely essential that the person so to be assessed should be in existence at the time of making the assessment. In the present case the assessment has been framed by the AO on a date when the present assessee was not in existence… Sita Bai Khetan vs. ITO (ITAT Jaipur) Valuation is always a matter of estimation where some degree of difference is bound to occur. The difference between the valuation adopted by the Stamp Valuation Authority and declared by the assessee is less than 10%Read more › ‹ Maria Fernandes Cheryl vs. ITO (ITAT Mumbai) Teleperformance Global Services Private Limited vs. ACIT (Bombay High Court) › 2 comments on “DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad)” Sejal says: July 3, 2022 at 10:41 pm The entire Section 56(2)(viib) militate against the ease of doing business concept. The Honourable supreme Court in the BALCO disinvestment case had clearly laid down that the value of a company/ asset is what the highest bidding person prepared to give. Valuation of a share is subjective on many counts including negotiation, wants of one party etc. How can the Assessing Officer step into the shoes of the bidder ? Unless there is clear cut evidence of money laundering. Then the origins and credit worthiness of the buyer of shares can be called into question. But that needs to be on exception basis and purely on account of specific information received. The present section makes it a default measure. Sejal Sejal says: July 3, 2022 at 10:44 pm Valuation of a share is subjective on many counts including negotiation, wants of one party etc. How can the Assessing Officer step into the shoes of the bidder ? Unless there is clear cut evidence of money laundering. Then the origins and credit worthiness of the buyer of shares can be called into question. But that needs to be on exception basis and purely on account of specific information received. The present section makes it a default measure. Categories — all — AAR All Judgements High Court Others Supreme Court Tribunal Tags — all — recovery of taxes trans judges — all — A. A. Sayed J A. B. Chaudhari J A. C. Rao J A. D. Jain (JM) A. G. Uraizee J A. I. S. Cheema J A. J. Shastri J A. K. Chawla J A. K. Garodia (AM) A. K. Menon J. A. K. Patnaik J A. M. Badar J A. M. Khanwilkar CJ A. M. Khanwilkar J A. Mohan Alankamony (AM) A. N. Venugopala Gowda J A. P. Bhangale J A. S. Bopanna J A. S. Gadkari J A. S. Oka J A. T. Varkey (JM) A. V. Chandrashekara J A. V. Nirgude J A.K. Sikri J. A.M.Shaffique J Abdul Quddhose J Abhay Ahuja J Abhay Manohar Sapre J Abhijit Gangopadhyay J Abraham P. George (AM) Adarsh Kumar Goel J Ajay Kumar Mittal J Ajay Mohan J Ajay Rastogi J Ajay Tewari J Akil Kureshi J Alok Aradhe J Alok Singh J Alok Verma J Amarjit Singh (JM) Amit Shukla (JM) Amitabha Chatterjee J Amitava Roy J Amrita Sinha J Anadee Nath Misshra (AM) Anil Chaturvedi (AM) Anil K. Narendran J Anil R. Dave J Aniruddha Bose J Anita Sumanth J Annapurna Gupta (AM) Annapurna Mehrotra (AM) Antony Dominic J Anup Jairam Bhambhani J Aravind Kumar J Arindam Sinha J Arun Mishra J Asha Arora J Asha Vijayaraghavan (JM) Ashok Bhan J Ashok Bhushan J Ashok Kumar Gaur J Ashok Menon J Ashutosh Kumar J Ashwani Taneja (AM) Ashwani Taneja(AM) Avneesh Jhungan J B. C. Meena (AM) B. Manohar J B. N. Karia J B. P. Colabawalla J B. P. Dharmadhikari J B. P. Jain (AM) B. R. Baskaran (AM) B. R. Gavai J B. R. R. Kumar (AM) B. Rajendran J B. Ramakotiah (AM) B. Sreenivase Gowda J B. Veerappa J B.S.V Prakash Kumar (JM) Badar Durrez Ahmed J Beena Pillai (JM) Bhagchand (AM) Bharati H. Dangre J Bharati Sapru J Bhargav D. Karia J Bhavnesh Saini (JM) Bimal Julka Biren Vaishnav J Biswajit Mohanty J Biswanath Somadder J C Saravanan J C. L. Soni J C. M. Garg (JM) C. N. Prasad (JM) C. V. Bhadang J C. V. Karthikeyan J Challa Kodanda Ram J Challa Nagendra Prasad (JM) Chander Shekhar J Chandra Poojari (AM) Chief Justice D. Karunakara Rao (AM) D. Manmohan VP D. T. Garasia (JM) D. Y. Chandrachud CJ D. Y. Chandrachud J Dama Seshadri Naidu J Debangsu Basak J Deepa Sharma J Deepak Gupta J Deepak Sibal J Dev Darshan Sud J Devan Ramachandran J Dilip Gupta J Dinesh Maheshwari J Dipak Misra CJI Dipak Misra J Diva Singh (JM) Dr. A. L. Saini (AM) Dr. Kaushal Jayendra Thaker J Dr. Manjula Chellur CJ Dr. Shalini Phansalkar-Joshi J Dr. Vineet Kothari J Duvvuru RL Reddy (JM) F. M. Reis J Fateh Deep Singh J G. C. Gupta (VP) G. D. Agrawal (P) G. D. Agrawal (VP) G. M. Akbar Ali J G. Manjunatha (AM) G. Narendar J G. Pavan Kumar (JM) G. R. Udhwani J G. S. Kulkarni J G. S. Pannu (AM) G. S. Pannu (VP) G. S. Patel J G. S. Sandhawalia J. George George K (JM) George Mathan (JM) Girish Chandra Gupta J Gudiseva Shyam Prasad J Gudivasa Shyam Prasad J H. G. Ramesh J H. L. Dattu CJI H. L. Karwa H. L. Karwa VP H. S. Sidhu (JM) H. T. Narendra Prasad J Hari Om Maratha (JM) Harnaresh Singh Gill J Harsha Devani J. Hemant Gupta J Hrishikesh Roy J I. C. Sudhir (JM) I. Mahanty J I. P. Bansal (JM) I. P. Mukerji J I. R. Shaikh I. S. Mehta J Ilesh J Vora J Inderjeet Singh J Indira Banerjee CJ Indira Banerjee J Indira Jain J Indrajit Chatterjee J Indu Malhotra J Inturi Rama Rao (AM) J. Chelameswar J. J. P. Devadhar J J. R. Midha J J. S. Khehar J Jagdish Singh Khehar J. Jason P. Boaz (AM) Jayant Patel J JB Pardiwala J Joginder Singh (JM) John Michael Cunha J K. J. Thaker J K. K. Tated J K. K. Trivedi J K. L. Wadane J K. M. Joseph CJ K. M. Joseph J K. N. Charry (JM) K. Narasimha Chary (JM) K. S. Jhaveri J K. Vinod Chandran J Kalpesh Satyendra Jhaveri J Kalyan Jyoti J Krishna Murari J Kul Bharat (JM) Kuldip Singh (JM) Kurian Joseph J L. Nageswara Rao J L. Narasimha Reddy J L. P. Sahu (AM) Laliet Kumar (JM) M. Balganesh (AM) M. Jaichandren J M. Nagaprasanna J M. R. Shah J M. S. Jawalkar J M. S. Karnik J M. S. Mungale ASJ M. S. Sanklecha J M. S. Sonak J M. Sathyanarayanan J M. Sundar J M. V. Muralidaran J Madan B. Lokur J Madhu Mohan Damodhar (TM) Madhumita Roy (JM) Mahavir Prasad (JM) Mahavir Singh (JM) Manish Borad (AM) Manish Pitale J Manmohan Singh J Manoj Kumar Aggarwal (AM) Mihir Kumar Jha Milind D. Jadhav J Milind N. Jadhav J Mitha Lal Meena (AM) Mohan M. Shantagoudar J Mohit Shah CJ Mridula Bhatkar Mridula Bhatkar J Mukul Shrawat (JM) N. Barathvaja Sankar (VP) N. K. Billaiya (AM) N. K. Choudhry (JM) N. K. Patil J N. K. Pradhan (AM) N. K. Saini (AM) N. Kirubakaran J N. Kumar J N. M. Jamdar J N. S. Saini (AM) N. V. Ramana J N. V. Vasudevan (JM) N.R.S. Ganesan (JM) Najmi Waziri J Navin Sinha J Nitin Jamdar J Nooty Ramamohana Rao J Nutan D. Sardesai J O. P. Kant (AM) P. B. Suresh Kumar J P. K. Bansal (AM) P. K. S. Baghel J P. M. Jagtap P. Madhavi Devi (JM) P. N. Deshmukh J P. N. Prakash J P. R. Ramachandra Menon J P.M.Jagtap (AM) Pankaj Mithal J Partha Sarathi Chaudhury (JM) Pavan Kumar Gadale (JM) Pawan Singh (JM) Pawan Singh Rajawat (ACMM) Pinaki Chandra Ghose J PP Bhatt (President) Pradip Kumar Kedia (AM) Prafulla C. Pant J Prakash D. Naik J Pramod Kumar (AM) Pramod Kumar (VP) Prashant Kumar Mishra J Prashant Maharishi (AM) Prateek Jalan J Pratibha M. Singh J President Prithviraj K. Chavan J R. Banumathi J R. Bhanumathi J R. C R. C. Sharma (AM) R. D. Dhanuka J R. K. Agrawal J R. K. Deshpande J R. K. Gauba J R. K. Panda (AM) R. Karuppiah J R. M. Savant J R. P. Dholeria J R. P. Tolani (JM) R. S. Padvekar (JM) R. S. Sarkale ACCM R. S. Syal (AM) R. S. Syal (VP) R. Subhash Reddy J R. Sudhakar J R.F. Nariman J R.M. Lodha CJI Raghavendra S. Chauhan J Raj Rahul Garg J Rajendra (AM) Rajesh Kumar (AM) Rajiv Sahai Endlaw J Rajiv Shakdher J Rajive Bhalla J Rajpal Yadav (JM) Ram Lal Negi (JM) Ramendra Jain J Ramesh C. Sharma (AM) Ramesh Ranganathan CJ Ramesh Ranganathan J Ramit Kochar (AM) Ranjan Gogoi J Rathnakala J Ravikumar Duraisamy (TM) Ravindra Bhat J Ravindra Nath Mishra J Ravish Sood (JM) Rekha Mittal J Riyaz I. Chagla J Rohinton Fali Nariman J. S. A. Bobde CJI S. A. Bobde J S. Abdul Nazeer J S. C. Dharmadhikari J S. C. Gupte J S. C. Sharma J S. H. Vora J S. J. Kathawallla J S. J. Vajifdar CJ S. J. Vazifdar CJ S. M. Modak J S. Manikumar J S. Muralidhar J S. Rifaur Rahman (AM) S. S. Godara (JM) S. S. Sundar J S. S. Viswanethra Ravi (JM) S. S. Viwanethra Ravi (JM) S. Sujatha J S. V. Gangapurwala J S. V. Mehrotra (AM) S. Vimala J Saktijit Dey (JM) Sandeep Gosain (JM) Sandeep K. Shinde J Sangeeta K. Vishen J Sangita Dhingra Sehgal J Sanjay Arora (AM) Sanjay Garg (JM) Sanjay Karol J Sanjay Kishan Kaul J Sanjay Kumar Gupta J Sanjay Kumar J Sanjeev Narula J Sanjeev Sachdeva J Sanjib Banerjee J Sanjiv Khanna J Sankar Prasad Mitra J Sarang V. Kotwal J Sarathi Chaudhury (JM) Satish Chandra J Saumitra Dayal Singh J Shailendra Yadav (JM) Shaji P. Chaly J Shamim Yahya (AM) Sharad Kumar Sharma J Shekhar B. Saraf J Siddharth Mridul J Sonia Gokani J Subhro Kamal Mukherjee J Subramoniam Prasad J Suchitra Kamble (JM) Sudhakar Reddy (AM) Sudhanshu Dhulia J Sudhanshu Jyoti Mukhopadhaya Sudhanshu Srivastava (JM) Sudhir Agarwal J Suneet Kumar J Sunil B. Shukre J Sunil Kumar Yadav (JM) Sunil P. Deshmukh J Surya Kant J Sushma Chowla (JM) Swapna Joshi J T. Mathivanan J T. R. Meena (AM) T. R. Sood (AM) T. S. Kapoor (AM) T. S. Sivagnanam J T. S. Thakur J Talwant Singh J U.B.S. Bedi (JM) Uday Umesh Lalit J Ujjal Bhuyan J Uma Devi J Umesh Trivedi J V. Bhavani Subbaroyan J V. C. Daga J V. Durga Rao (JM) V. Gopala Gowda J V. K. Jadhav J V. Kameswar Rao J V. M. Deshpande J V. M. Kanade J V. Ramasubramanian J V. S. Sirpurkar J Vasanti A. Naik J Veerendr Singh Sirdhana J Vibha Kankanwadi J Vibhu Bakhru J Vijay Kumar Vyas J Vijay Manohar Sahai J Vijay Pal Rao (JM) Vikas Awasthy (JM) Vikram Singh Yadav (AM) Vineet Saran J Vinod Kumar Misra J vipin Sanghi J Vipin Sangi J Virender Singh J Vivek Varma (JM) Waseem Ahmed (AM) Yashwant Varma J sections — all — - 10 10 B(1)(a) 10(10D) 10(19A) 10(20) 10(23)(vi) 10(23C) (iv) 10(23C)(iiiab) 10(23C)(iv) 10(23C)(via) 10(3) 10(37) 10(38) 100 CPC 10A 10AA 10B 10B (1)(e)(iii) 10B(3) 11 11(1)(a) 11(6) 113 115-O 115A 115BBA 115BBC 115BBE 115JA 115JB 115QA 115VA 115VF 115VG 119 119(2)(b) 12 120(4) 127 12A 12AA 12AA(2) 12AA(3) 13 131(1) 131(1A) 132 132(4) 132A 133A 139(1) 139(3) 139(5) 139AA 140A 142(1) 142(2A) 142(2C) 142A 143 143(1) 143(1A) 143(1D) 143(2) 143(20 143(3) 144 144 CPC 144B 144C 145 145(2) 145(3) 145A 147 148 14A 15 150 150(1) 151 153 153(2A) 153A 153B 153C 153D 154 158B 158BB 158BC 158BD 158BE 158BFA(1) 158BFA(2) 158BH 159 160 160(1)(iv) 161(1) 163 164 164(1) 17 17(2)(iii) 17(2)(vi) 17(3)(iii) 170 170(2) 172 176 18 18 of Limitation Act 184(5) 19(23C)(vi) 192 194 194-H 194-I 194-IA 194-J 194A 194C 194E 194LA 195 195 CrPC 197 197A 1988 199 2(14) 2(15) 2(1A) 2(22)(d) 2(22)(e) 2(24) 2(24)(iia) 2(24)(x) 2(24)(xvi) 2(31) 2(35) 2(42A) 2(42C) 2(43) 2(47) 2(47)(v) 2(47)(vi) 2(7) of the Interest-tax Act 2(7A) 200 200A 201 201(1) 201(1A) 201(3) 205 206AA 206C 207 208 209 22 220(2) 220(6) 221(1) 225 226 226(3) 227 &amp; 323B of Constitution of India 23 23(1)(c) 234A 234B 234C 234D 234E 237 24 241A 244 244A 244A(1)(b) 245 245(2A) 245C 245F 245R 246 246A 249(3) 249(4) 24AA Surtax Act 25 250 251` 252(1) 253 253(1) 253(2) 253(3) 253(5) 254 254(1) 254(2) 254(2A) 255(3) 255(4) 256(1) 256(2) 26(4) of Kar Agr I. T. Act 260A 263 264 268A 269SS 269T 271(1-B) 271(1)(c) 271AAA 271AAB 271B 271C 271D 271E 271FA 271G 272A(1)(c) 272A(2)(c) 272A(2)(k) 273(2)(a) 273B 274 275(1)(c) 275(1A) 276A 276B 276C 277 278AA 278AB 278B 278D 278E 279 279(1) 27A of Wealth-tax Act 28 28(iv) 28(va) 281B 282 29 292B 292BB 292C 293(c) 3 30 31 32 32(1)(ii) 32(2) 35(2AB) 35AB 35AC 35D 36(1)(iii) 36(1)(va) 36(1)(vii) 36(1)(viii) 36(2) 37 37(1) 37(2A) 4 40(a)(i) 40(a)(ia) 40(a)(ii) 40(a)(iii) 40(b)(v) 40(ba) 405 IPC 40A(2) 40A(2)(b) 40A(3) 40A(8) 40A(9) 41(1) 42 43(1) 43(5) 43(5)(a) 43(6) 43(6)(c) 43B 43CB 43D 44AB 44BB 44C 44D 44DA 45 45(4) 45(5) 468 CrPC 46A 47(ii) 47(iii) 47(iv) 47(vii) 47(xiiib) 47A(4) 48 482 CrPC 49 49(1) 5 5 of Limitation Act 5(1) 5(2)(b) 50 50B 50C 53A 54 54B 54EC 54F 54G 55 55A 56 56(1)(viib) 56(2)(vi) 56(2)(vii) 56(2)(viia) 56(2)(viib) 56(viib) 560(5) Companies Act 1956 58 6 6(6)(a) 61 63 68 69 69A 69B 69C 70(3) 72A 72A(6A) 73 79 80 80-H 80-I 80-IA 80-IA(4) 80-IB 80-IB(10) 80-IB(9) 80-IC 80-O 80AB 80G(5) 80HH 80HHC 80HHE 80IA 80IA(2A) 80IA(4) 80IA(9) 80IB(10) 80IB(7) 80P 80V 9 9(1) 9(1)(i) 9(1)(ii) 9(1)(v)(b) 9(1)(vi) 9(1)(vii) 90 90(2) 90(3) 90(4) 92 92A 92A(2) 92B 92BA(i) 92C 92C(1) 92C(1)(a) 92C(3) 92CA 92CA(1) 92CA(3) 92CB 92D 92F Advocates Act 1972 Article 11 Article 12 Article 13(4) Article 136 Article 14 Article 141 Article 142 Article 15 Article 16(1) Article 19(1)(g) Article 21 Article 226 Article 227 Article 23 Article 24 Article 26 Article 3 Article 5 Article 7 Article 8 Article 9 Article5 Artkcle 141 AS-11 Bar Council of India Rules 1975 Benami Transactions Prohibition Act Black Money Act Bombay High Court Rules Chapter VI-A Code Of Conduct Commercial Taxes Companies Act Constitution of India Contempt of Courts Act Contract Act CPC Cr. P. C CrPC CST Act Customs Act DTAA Education Cess Evidence Act Excise Act Excise Duty Explanation 10 to s. 43(1) Explanation 2 to s. 132B Explanation 7 to s. 271(1)(c) Explanation to s. 37 Explanation to s. 73 Extension of stay orders GAAR Gold Control Act 1968 GST Act Hindu Law Hindu Succession Act 1956 HUF Law ICAI Act India-Germany DTAA India-UAE DTAA India-USA DTAA Indian Penal Code Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 Interest-tax Act interpretation of statutes ITAT Appointment Rules ITAT Members Appointment Rules LLP Act Natural Justice Negotiable Instruments Act Notification no. 91 of 2008 dated 28.08.2008 Prevention of Corruption Act Registration Act RTI Act Rule 10A Rule 10AB Rule 10B Rule 10B(1)(b) Rule 10B(1)(d) Rule 10C Rule 10THB Rule 10THD Rule 11 ITAT Rules Rule 11 UA(2)(a) Rule 11U(b)(ii) Rule 11UA Rule 127 Rule 2 of Schedule II Rule 24 Rule 27 Rule 28AA Rule 32A Rule 34(5)(c) Rule 37BA Rule 45 Rule 46A Rule 658 Rule 68 of Second Schedule Rule 6D Rule 6DD Rule 8D Rule 9C Rule_10B Rules 18 and 29 of ITAT Rules s 138 Negotiable Instruments Act S 3 of Indian Evidence Act S. 114 Of Evidence Act s. 14 of partnership Act s. 19 Bihar Finance Act 1981 S. 21 of General Clauses Act S. 24 of General Clauses Act S. 34 of the Evidence Act S. 80-IB(10)(d) Sales-tax Act SARFAESI Act second proviso Section 2(42A) Section 37 Partnership Act Securities Transaction Tax (STT) Service-tax Act Strictures Tribunal Appointment Rules under Article 224A Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme Wealth-tax Act counsels — all — - A. B. Patil A. K. Gupta A. K. Jasani A. K. Lal A. K. Sanghi A. K. Tibrewal A. K. Tulsiyan A. N. S. Nadkarni A. P. Shrivastava A. Shankar A. Srinivas A. T. M. Ranga Ramanujam A. V. Raghuram A. Vissanjee A. Vissanji A.S. Narayanamoorthy Aakash Mansinka Aarti N Shah Aarti Sathe Aasifa Khan Abhay Jadeja Abhijeet Sinha Abhijit Dilip Sarwate Abhimanyu Jhamba Abhinav Mehrotra Abhinav Sharma Abhishek Padwalkar Abhishek Sharma Abhishek Tilak Abhratosh Majumdar Aditya Ajgaonkar Aditya Bohra Agarwal Aishwarya Bhati Ajay Gandhi Ajay R. Singh Ajay Singh Ajay Vohra Ajay Wadhwa Ajit Sharma Ajit U. Amdekar Ajith Anand Shetty Akhilesh Kumar Akhileshwar Sharma Akshat Shrivastava Akshay Bhan Alok Saksena Amin Merchant Amit Arora Amit Desai Amit Goel Amit Khatiwala Amit Mishra Anagha S. Desai Anand Pasari Anand Sanjay M. Nuli Ananya Kapoor Anil C. Nishant Anil Chopra Anil D. Nair Anil Kochar Anil Nair Anil Singh ASG Anil Thakrar Anjali Jha Manish Ankit Agarwal Ankit Vijaywargia Ankul Goyal Anupam Dighe Anurag Sinha Arati Vissanji Arijit Chakrabarti Arijit Chakravarty Arijit Prasad Arpit Agarwal Arta Trana Panda Arun Chabbra Arun Ganesh Jogdeo Arun Raj S Arun Sathe Arvind Datar Arvind Kumar Arvind Pinto Arvind Sonde Ashish Goyal Ashish Mohan Ashok Bhalla Ashok Bhatia Ashok Jayawant Patil Ashok Kotangle Ashwani Gupta Ashwani Kalia Ashwani Kumar Ashwani Taneja Ashwani Tanjeja Asif I. Patel Attorney General Atul Goyal Atul Jasani Atul Ninawat Awdhesh Kumar B. K. Manjunatha B. L. Gandhi B. M. Chatterji B. Narasimha Sarma B. Ramana Kumar B. S. Balachandran B. S. Soparkar B. Satyanarayana Murthy B. V. Balaram Das B. V. Jhaveri Babu Prasad Baij Nath Patel Balasaheb Yevale Balbir Singh Bansuri Swaraj Basava Prabhu Patil Bharat Damodar Bharat Gandhi Bharat Kumar Bharat Raichandani Bharath Janarthanan Bhargava V. Desai Bhupendra Shah Bidhan Chandra Rai Bijay Panda Bishwajit Bhattacharyya Brijesh Singh C. A. Sundaram C. H. Naniwadekar C. J. Thakkar C. Kameswara Rao C. N. Sreekumar C. Naresh C. P. Ramaswamy C. S. Agarwal C. S. Aggarwal C. Subrahmanyam C. V. S. Murthy CA Nishant Maitin CA Sundaram CBM Warrier Chandni Tanna Chetan Karia Chetan Pandya Chinmayee Chandra Chirag Shetty Chitranajan Bharadia Chythanya K. K CIT-DR Amitabh Kumar Sinha CIT-DR Indrjit Singh D S Damle D. C. Jain D. L. Chidanand D. V. Anjaneyulu D. V. Lakhani Darshan B Gandhi Darshan Patel Debesh Panda Deepa Khare Deepak Chopra Deepak Tralshawalla Deepika Sekar Devendra Jain Devendra Singh Devina Sharma Dhanesh Bafna Dharan Gandhi Dharmesh Shah Dhiren Shah Dhruv Agarwal Dhruv Aggarwal Dhruv Mehta Dinesh Goyal Dinesh Vyas Dinkle Haria Dipendra Mohan Dishesh Shrivastava Divesh Chawla Dr Birendra Saraf Dr. Abhinav Chandrachud Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi Dr. Aman Hingorani Dr. Anitha Sumanth Dr. K. Shivram Dr. Lalit Bhasin Dr. Manish Singhvi Dr. P. Daniel Dr. Rakesh Gupta Dr. S M Lala Dushyant Dave Elson Sequeira Ex-parte F. V. Irani Firdos Mirza Firoze Andhyarujina G C Srivastava G. Balaji G. Baskar G. C. Pipara G. M. Mehta G. N. Reddy G. P. Mehta G. S. Pikale G. Venkatesh Gargi Bhagwat Gaurav Agrawal Gaurav Bharadwaj Gaurav Jain Gaurav Joshi Gaurav Kabra Gaurav Mahajan Gaurav Sharma Gaurav V. Kathed Gautam Jain Geetanjali Mohan Girish Dave Gopal Krishna Shivaram Hegde Gopal Ram Sharma Gopal Subramanium Govind Jhaveri Gunjan Pathak Guru Krishna Kumar Guru Krishnakumar Gyan Pipara H. N. Khincha H. P. Agarwal H. P. Ranina H. Raghavendra Rao H. Srinivasulu Hardik P Modi Haresh G. Buch Haresh P. Shah Hari S. Raheja Harinder Toor Hariom Tulsyan Harish Salve Harsh Bafna Harsh Kapadia Harsh Kothari Harsh Shah Harshvardhana Datar Harshwardhabn Datar Hemang Gargieya Hemant Kumar Arora Hemant Sethi Himanshu Gandhi Himanshu S. Sinha Himanshu Shekhar Sinha Hirali Desai Hiren Mehta Hiren Trivedi Hiro Rai Hiten Chande Hitesh Kaplish Huzefa Ahmadi Huzefa Ahmedi Imtiaz Ahmed Inder Paul Bansal Indira Anand Indu Malhotra Inturi Rama Rao Iype John J. B. Mishra J. D. Mistry J. J. Mehrotra J. J. Pardiwalla J. P. Bairagra J. P. Khaitan J. P. Shah J. S. Bhasin J.D. Mistri Jabbar Shaikh Jaideep Gupta Jas Sanghavi Jas Sanghvi Jascinta Zimik Vashai Jasmin Amalsaduala Jay Bhansali Jay Savla Jayesh Dolia Jeet Kamdar Jignesh R. Shah Jinita Chatterjee Jitendra Jain Jitendra Motwani Jitendra Sanghavi Jitendra Singh JK Mittal Jose Jacob Joseph Kodianthara Joseph Markos Joy Kuriakose Jyoti Narula K C Moondra K Vasantkumar K. A. Aravind K. B. Mohammed Kutty K. Balakrishnan K. C. Devdas K. G. Raghavan K. Gopal K. K. Chaitanya K. K. Chythanya K. K. Sharma K. K. Venugopal K. L. Dharmadhikari AGP K. Meenakshi Sundaran K. Neeraja K. P. Dewani K. P. Ganguli K. P. Gaunguli K. P. Paulson K. Parameshwar K. R. Chhabra K. R. Lakshminarayanan K. R. Manjani K. R. Rastogi K. R. Sekar K. R. Vasudevan K. Radhakrishnan K. S. Hanumantha Rao K. V. Aravind K. V. Mohan Kaanan Kapur Kadambari Dave Kailash Chand Kalpesh Turalkar Kanchan Kaushal Kanchun Kaushal Kapil Goel Kapil Goyal Karishma Phatarphekar Karishma Popat Phatarphekar Karishma R Phatarphekar Kavin Gulati Kavita Jha Kedar Phadke Keshav Bhujle Ketan Ved Kiran S. Javali Kiran Suri Kirit N. Mehta Kirit Sheth Kishor Phadke Kishore Phadke KR Patel Krishna V. Gujrathi Krishnan Venugopal Kuldeep Dhiman Kushagra Pandey L. D. Vakil Lakshmikumaran Lalith Kumar Laxminiwas Sharma M K Patel M S Syali M. G. Moryani M. H. Patil M. K. Gautam M. Karunagaran M. M. Golvala M. P. Lohia M. P. Rastogi M. P. Senthilkumar M. R. Shah M. Rajshirke M. S. Mathuria M. S. Vohra M. Selvakumar M. Sivathanu M. Subramanian M. Swaminathan Madhur Agrawal Mahabir Singh Mahalakshmi Pawani Mahendra Gargieya Mahesh Saboo Mala Goel Manasvini Bajpai Mandar Vaidya Mangar Shukla Manish J. Shah Manish J. Sheth Manish K. Kaji Manish Kant Manish Kanth Manish Pushkarna Manish R Bhatt Manish Tiwari Manoj Kataruka Manoj Khurana Manoj Kumar Manoj N. Makhania Manoj Shirsat Manoj Swarup Manshi Padhiar Manthan Shah Manu Monga Mathew Joseph Mathew Nedumpara Mayank Jain Mayank Nagi Megha Sharma Meghraj Mehul Agarwal Mihir Joshi Mihir Naniwadekar Mihir Thakore Miraj D. Shah Mohan Parasaran Monika Ghai MR Bhatt Mrugakshi K Joshi Mrunal Parekh Mukesh Advani Mukesh Bhutani Mukesh Butani Mukesh Patel Mukul Rohatgi Muniyappa N. C. Jain N. C. Mohanty N. K. Poddar N. K. Sahi N. K. Saini N. K. Shahi N. K. Shrimal N. L. Agarwal N. M. Porwal N. M. Ranka N. P. Sahni N. R. Agrawal N. S. Bhattad N. V. Balaji N. V. Nadkarni N. Venkataraman N. Vijay Kumar Nageshwar Rao Nakul Dewan Narendra Sharma Naresh Jain Naresh Kumar Natasha Mangat Naveen Kumar Mishra Navtej Kumar Neelam Jadhav Neelkanth Khandelwal Neeraj Jain Neeraj Kaul Neha Paranjpe Nidhesh Gupta Nikhil Nayyar Nikhil Pai Nikhil Pathak Nikhilesh Begani Nikita Badeka Nilesh Patel Nimesh Chotani Niraj Sheth Nishant Thakkar Nishit Gandhi Nitesh Gandhi Nitesh Joshi Nitin Narang Nitin P. Deshpande Nupur Shah O. D. Kakade O. P. Mody P. B. Balakrishnan P. C. Chhotaray P. C. Parwal P. C. Tripathi P. Chidambaram P. Daniel P. H. Parekh P. K. Kapoor P. K. Shahi P. M. Choudhari P. M. Choudhary P. Murali Mohan Rao P. N. Arora P. R. Kothari P. R. Mullick P. Ramesh Kumar P. Rao P. Soma Sekhar Reddy P. V. Kapur P. V. Surte P.J. Pardiwalla Padamchand Khincha Pankaj Garg Pankaj Gupta Pankaj Jain Pankaj Mishra Pankaj R. Toprani Pankaj Shah Parag Tripathi Paras Savla Paresh Shaparia Parikshit Agarwal Parikshit Aggarwal Parveen Kumar Aggarwal Paurami Sheth Pavan Ved Pawan Kumar Percy Pardiwala Phiroz Andhyarujina Pinki Anand Piyush Chawla Piyush Chhajed Piyush Kaushik Pooja Swaroop Poonam Ahuja Porus Kaka Pradeep Dinodia Pradeep K. Sahgal Pradeep N. Kapasi Pradeep S. Jetly Pradyuman Bisht Pragya Koolwal Prakash Chand Yadav Prakash Jhunjhunwala Prakash Jotwani Prakash Kumar prakash Shah Prakul Khurana Pramita M Biswas Pramod Kumar Parida Pramod Shingte Pranav Badheka Pranjal Srivastava Pranshu Goel Prasanth Srinivas Prashant Bhushan Prathna Jalan Preetesh Kapur Prem Lata Bansal Prem Nath Monga Preteesh Kapur Pretesh Kapur Prithviraj Choudhari Priya Bhalawal Priyadarshi Manish Puneet Jain Pushkar Pandey Pushya Sitaraman R. B. Doshi R. B. Shah R. C. Jain R. Hemalatha R. K. Biswas R. K. Bothra R. K. Patel R. M. Sinha R. Muralidhar R. N. Bajoria R. N. Dutta R. Narendran R. P. Bhat R. P. Bhatt R. Raghunandan R. S. Ahuja R. S. Singhavi R. S. Singhvi R. Sivaraman R. V. Desai R. V. Easwar R. Venkataramani R. Vijaya Narayan R. Vijayaraghavan Radha Raman Tripathy Radha Shyam Jena Radhika Suri Rafiq Dada Raghavendra Rao Raghunathan Sampath Raghuraman V Rahul Chaudhary Rahul Hakani Rahul K. Mitra Rahul R. Sarda Rahul Raman Rahul Sarda Raj Kumar Raj Kumar Gupta Raj Kumar Mehta Rajan Vora Rajat Navei Rajat Navet Rajeev Sogani Rajesh Arora Rajesh Mahana Rajesh Mahna Rajesh Poojary Rajesh Shah Rajesh Simhan Rajiv Jain Rajiv Nayar Rajiv Sogani Rajkumar Singh Rajshekar Rao Rajveer Singh Rakesh Dwivedi Rakesh Garg Rakesh Gupta Rakesh Joshi Rakesh Kumar Khiwani Rakesh Ranjan Agarwal Ram Chandra Prabesh Ram Jethmalani Ramesh Babu Ramesh K. Singhania Ramesh Kumar Patodia Rameshwar Prasad Goyal Ramit Katyal Ramji Srinivasan Ramprakash B. Shroff Rampriyadas Rano Jain Rashi Khanna Rashmi Chopra Rashmi Gupta Rashmikant C. Modi Ravi Kadam Ravi Rattesar Ravi Sharma Ravi Tulsiyan Ravish Sood Reepal G. Tralshawalla Rishabh Jain Ritika Agarwal Ritin Rai Riyaz S. Padvekar Rohan Deshpande Rohan Shah Rohan Sogani Rohit Garg Rohit Jain Rohit Tiwari Roshan Shah Ruchir Bhatia Rupesh Kumar Rutuja Pawar S Venkatraman S. Ananthan S. Anardan S. B. Upadhyay S. Baskar Mathuram S. C. Gupta S. C. Matta S. C. Thakkar S. C. Tiwari S. G. Dalal S. Ganesh S. J. Mehta S. Jhajharia S. K. Agarwal S. K. Bagaria S. K. Gupta S. K. Mukhi S. K. Tulsiyan S. K. Tyagi S. Krishnan S. M. Mathur S. M. Surana S. N. Soparkar S. P. Singh S. Parthasarathy S. R. Anuradha S. R. Sharma S. Raghunathan S. S. Rajeshwara Rao S. Rama Rao S. Ramasubramanyam S. Ravi S. S. Gupta S. S. Kantak S. Sathiyanarayanan S. Sridhar S. Sriram S. V. Adwant S. V. Joshi S.E. Dastur Sachin Datta Sachin Jain Sachit Jolly Sajjan Poovayya Salil Agarwal Salil Kapoor Salman Khurshid Samaraditya Pal Sameer Bhatia Sameer Dalal Sanat Kapoor Sandeep Goel Sandeep Sethi Sangeeta Kumar Sanjay B. Sawant Sanjay Bansal Sanjay Jain Sanjay Jhanwar Sanjay Nath Sanjay R. Parikh Sanjay Shah Sanjay Singh Sanjeev Kwatra Sanjeev Sapra Sanjiv Chaudhary Sanjiv Sabharwal Sanjiv Shah Sanket Joshi Santosh Agarwal Sashank Dandu Sashi Tulsiyan Satish Aggarwal Satish Mody Satyajeet Goel Satyen Sethi Sean Wassodew Shailesh Kumar Shakeel A Qureshi Sham Walve Shambhu Chopra Shanti Bhushan Sharan Jagtiani Sharmila Prabhu Shashi Bekal Shashi N. Kapila Shaswat Bajpai Shilpa Kapil Shipra Ghosh Shiv Prakash Shivan Desai Shobha Jagtiani Shreyash Shah Shubham Agarwal Shyam Divan Shyam Diwan Shyam Lal Agarwal Shyam Walve Siddharth Luthra Sidharth Luthra Simran Mehta Siva Kumar Smita Das Somasekar Sundaresan Somil Agarwal Somnath Ghosh Somnath Shukla Sonil Aggarwal Soumen Adak Soumitra Choudhury Sourabh Bagharia Sridhar Potaraju Srihari Iyer Sriram Seshadri Subash Agarwal Subhas Agarwal Subhash Chhajed Subhash S. Shetty Sudheendra B. R Sudhir Chandra Sudhir Kumar Sudhir Sehgal Sugata Shankar Roy Sujay Kantawala Sujit Ghosh Sukh Sagar Syal Sumit Lalchandani Sumit Mangal Sunil Ganoo Sunil Hirawat Sunil M. Lala Sunil Moti Lala Sunil Pathak Sunil Sethi Sunil T. Vankawala Sunil U Pathak Suraj Jhanwar Suresh K. Gupta Suresh Kumar Susan Linhares Sushant Murthy Sushil Kumar Jain Suyash Agrawal Swapnil Bangur Swapnil Deshmukh Swarn Singh Syed Jameeluddin T P Ostwal T. Banusekar T. J. Pandian T. M. Sreedharan T. N. Seetharaman T. Pappaiah Dharmarajan T. R. Senthil Kumar T. Srinivasa T. Surya Narayana T. Suryanarayana T. V. Subramanya Bhat Tanmany Phadke Tanzil R. Padvekar Tarun Arora Tarun Gulati Tarundeep Singh Tej Mohan Singh Tushar Mehta Tushar P. Hemani U. A. Rana U. Dasgupta Urvashi Dhugga Urvashi Shodhan Usha Dalal Utkarsh Shrivastava Utsav Sahgal V Justin V K Tulsian V. K. Beswal V. L. Jain V. Lakshmikumaran V. P. Gupta V. Prabhakar V. S. Hadade V. S. Rastogi V. Shekhar V. Sridharan V. Srinivasan V.V.S. Rao Vaibhav Pandya Vani H Vartik Choksi Varun Patel Vasanti Patel Ved Jain Vibha Dutta Makhija Vijay Kothari Vijay Mehta Vijay Shah Vijaykumar G Subramanyam Vikas Jain Vikram Nankani Vikramjit Banerjee Vikramjit Banerjee ASG Vimal Desai Vimal Gupta Vimal Punamiya Vimal Punmiya Vinayak Patkar Vinod Kumar Bindal Vipul J Shah Vipul Joshi Viraj Mehta Virendra Ojha Vishal Kalra Vivek Perampurna Vrinda Tulshan Y .K. Kapur Y. K. Sud Y. P. Trivedi Y. Ratnakar Yashank P. Adhyaru Yatish Kumar Laad Yogesh Agrawal Yogesh Thar Zoheb Hossain courts — all — AAR Allahabad High Court Andhra Pradesh High Court AP &amp; T High Court Appellate Tribunal for Benami Transactions Bombay High Court Bombay High Court (Goa Bench) Calcutta High Court CESTAT Chhattisgarh High Court Chief Metropoliton Magistrate CIC Constitution Bench Delhi High Court Gujarat High Court Himachal Pradesh High Court ITAT Agra ITAT Ahmedabad ITAT Amritsar ITAT Bangalore ITAT Chandigarh ITAT Chennai ITAT Cochin ITAT Cuttack ITAT Delhi ITAT Hyderabad ITAT Indore ITAT Jabalpur ITAT Jaipur ITAT Jodhpur ITAT Kolkata ITAT Lucknow ITAT Mumbai ITAT Panaji ITAT Patna ITAT Pune ITAT Raipur ITAT Rajkot ITAT Ranchi ITAT Surat ITAT Vizag J&amp;K High Court Karnataka High Court Kerala High Court Madhya Pradesh High Court Madras High Court Mumbai Mumbai ITAT Mumbai Tribunal NCLT Mumbai Orissa High Court P&amp;H High Court Patna High Court Rajasthan High Court Sessions Court Special Bench Supreme Court Third Member Uttarakhand High Court catchwords — all — +/- 5% adjustment $5 trillion economy 115JB Book Profits 143(1) assessment 234B interest 234C interest 234D interest 244A Interest 35D deduction 40A(2) disallowance 54F deduction 68 80-IA deduction 80HHC export incentives Aadhaar Card abatement of assessment Accomodation Accomodation entries accountability Accounting Standards Accrual Accrual of income Acknowledgement of debt actual cost actual payment additional evidence Additional Ground adjournment adjustment Admission by lawyer whether binding on client admission of appeal admission of undisclosed income advance ruling advance tax adventure in the nature of trade advertisement expenditure Advocates Advocates strike AE Affidavit agent aggregation agricultural income agricultural land AIR information addition allegation Allocation Key allocation of common expenditure ALP alternate claim alternate remedy ALV amalgamation Amazon Web Services (AWS) AMP Expenditure ancestral property annual value anonymous donations AOP APA apparant mistake application of income application of mind application software Appointment appointment of Tribunal Members apportionment of lump-sum consideration appreciation of department approval Arms length price arrest for recovery of arrear demand Assembly vs. Manufacture assessability Assessment associated enterprise attachment order attribution of profits to PE Audit Objection back-dated reasons Bad Debt belonging to Benami Transactions beneficial owner of shares Berry Ratio Best Judgement assessment Bills of Exchange binding effect binding precedent Black Money block assessment Block of Assets bogus accomodation entries bogus accounts bogus capital gains bogus expenditure bogus liability Bogus Loans Bogus purchases Bogus Sales bogus share capital bogus share premium Book Profits books of account borrowed capital BOT Bounced cheque BPO bribe brokerage built-up area business connection business expenditure business income business loss Business profits buy-back tax buyback of shares call option cancellation of registration capacity underutilization capital asset capital employed capital expenditure capital gains Capital receipt capital reduction capital vs. revenue expenditure capital vs. revenue receipt capitation fee carbon credits Carry forward of losses. cash credit cash deposit cash loan cash payments casual casual income CBDT Circular CBDT Circular dated 29.2.2016 CBDT Guidelines for scrutiny of cases CBDT Instructions CCM CCTV Cameras in ITAT CD cenvat credit CENVAT incentive scheme certified copy cessation Change in method of accounting change in shareholding change of address Change of opinion Charitable purpose charity charter hire Chartered Accountant CIT (DR) clarificatory amendment Client Code Modiciation Client Code Modification closing stock closing stock valuation co-op housing society Co-operative Society code of conduct coercive recovery colorable device commercial expediency commission Compact Disc companies Comparables compensation complete scrutiny completed contract composite business compounding fee compounding of offences compulsory acquisition computer software concealment concealment of income concealment Penalty concelment Penalty concession concurrent jurisdiction condonation Condonation of delay confidentiality consent letter consistency principle constitution constitutional validity construction of house constructive delivery consultancy services contempt of court Contractor conversion of company into LLP copyright Corona Virus corporate guarantee Corporate Social Responsibility corruption cost of acquisition Cost Plus Method costs court fee Covid-19 Creation of reserve criminal proceedings cross examination Cross-Objection CSR CUP CUP method Customs Duty Date of initiation of search DCF Valuation DDT dead person debatable issue debenture deductibility deduction Deduction u/s 54EC Deduction under section 10B deduction under section 80P deemed dividend deemed income defective notice deferred revenue expenditure defunct company delay delegation demonetization of currency Departmental Representative Dependent Agent Permanent Establishment deposits for payment of taxes Depreciation derivative contract derivatives derived from the undertaking Developer Development agreement Development Right’s Certificate Dharmada receipts disability disallowance Disallowance u/s 14 &amp; Rule 8D Disallowance u/s 14A &amp; Rule 8D disclose fully and truly all material facts disclosure discount discretionary trust Dissolution Diversion of income by overriding title dividend Dividend Distribution Tax Doctrine of Force Majeure Document domain registration fees Domestic Transfer Pricing donation Double Taxation Draft assessment order DRP Due date DVO's valuation report E-Assessment E-filing of appeals before CIT(A) Education Cess educational institution effectively connected with eligible profits Eligible undertaking email Employees contribution employer-employee relationship enhanced compensation Enhancement enhancement of income entertainment tax subsidy EOU Unit Escapement of Income ESIC ESOP estimate estoppel ethics Euribor Evidence Act ex-parte dismissal excess credit period Excise Duty excise records exempt income exemption existing liability expedited hearing of appeal Expeditious hearing export profits export turnover Extension of stay order extension of time extinguishment of rights extrapolation Failure of natural justice failure to disclose material facts fair market value of shares family arrangement family settlement fee feed for included services Fees for Independent Services fees for professional services Fees for technical services Female finding or direction fine firm fishing and roving inquiry FMV foerign tax foreign agents foreign bank account foreign exchange loss foreign lawyers foreign tax credit forex gain forex loss fraud freebies to doctors Frustration of Contract FSI functional test furnishing inaccurate particulars of income GAAR garnishee notices genuine hardship gift gifts from relatives goodwill Google Adwords GST Act guess work Guidance Note Guidelines head office expenses Hedging loss high-handed high-pitched assessments Hindu Law Hindu Succession Act 1956 Hindul Law HO holding company - subsidiary Housing Project HSBC Black Money HUF Human Probability hypothetical income ICAI ICD ICDS illegal business Impermissible Avoidance Agreement incentive income Income from house property income from other sources income-tax return incriminating material independent application of mind independent personal services India-Canada DTAA India-Cyprus DTAA India-France DTAA India-Germany DTAA India-Japan DTAA India-Korea DTAA India-Mauritius DTAA India-Netherlands DTAA India-Singapore DTAA India-Thailand DTAA India-UAE DTAA India-UK DTAA India-USA DTAA individual infraction of law initial assessment year injury Inland Container Depot (ICD) Inland Port inquiry Installation PE Instruction No. 1914 dated 2.2.1993 Instruction No.3/2003 dated 20.05.2003 insurance companies intangible asset Interest interest on broken period interest on fixed deposit interest on refund interest-free deposit interference with judiciary international transactions interpretation of statutes Intimation intra-group services investment investment in name of spouse (wife) irresponsible conduct irrevocable transfer ITAT Member ITAT Members ITAT recruitment ITES Joint Venture jurisdictional issue Karta keyman insurance KPO Land land acquisition Land Ceiling Act lease finance leasehold land leave encashment legal database legal fees legal representative legal services lessee liability liaison office LIBOR Limit on extent of commercial area of housing project Limitation Act Limitation of Benefits limitation period Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) limited scrutiny live broadcast loan or deposit of money Loans local authority location savings adjustment long-term capital asset Loose papers loss loss return low tax effect circular LTCG maintainability of appeal maintenace of property Maintenance charges make available management services Manger manufacturing process Married Daughters matching concept mens rea mercantile system of accounting Merchant Banker Merger Merilyn Shipping mesne profits method of valuation mineral oil Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) mining services Miscellaneous Application mobilisation fee modvat credit monetary consideration mortgage Most Appropriate Method municipality mushroom mutuality Mutuality - TDR Premium natural justice NAV valuation NDTV Negotiable Instruments Act Net Present Value (NPV) new industrial undertaking new residential house non-compete fee non-discrimination Non-executive directors liability Non-issue of s. 143(2) notice non-occupancy charges non-resident Non-service of s. 143(2) notice non-speaking order not involving the carrying of any activity of profit notification notional interest notional loss NPA NSEL scam NTT null &amp; void omission of provision on money onus operating lease Operating profit operational income opportunity of being heard Order on non-existing person order sheet Other income other place of their work other sources OTSS Owner paid vs payable PAN part performance of contract partners Partnership payment gateway charges payment of SA tax PE PE Fund peak credit penalty penalty for non-complaince with s. 131(1A) summons Penny Stocks percentage completion method Period of Holding - Long Term Capital Asset or Short Term Capital Asset permanent arrangement Permanent Establishment Perquisite Person Personal Ledger Account perverse finding of fact PF philanthropic purposes PIL PLA Plant PLI PMS Portfolio Management Services Power of Attorney Power Of Registrar power to review powers of CIT(A) powers of ITAT premium preponderance of probability presumption presumptive income prima facie adjustment principal-agent relationship principles of natural justice priority hearing priority of dues production sharing contract production vs. manufacturing professional expenditure professional misconduct profit motive Profit on sale of shares Profit Split Method promissory estoppel propriety prosecution protective assessment provision for bad debts provisional attachment proviso to Section 147 public interest purchase RBI Approval real income theory reason to believe reasonable cause reasons Reassessment recall of order Recovery of tax rectification of mistake redemption of preference shares redevelopment of property reduction of capital Reference Reference to TPO refund Refund of penalty registered shareholder registration reimbursement of actual cost Reimbursement of expenses Rejection of books of account rejection of books of accounts on arbitrary basis Related Party Transactions (RPTs) remand remission rent Rent for use of terrace rental income Reopening Reopening of assessment repairs repeal of a statute representative assessee res judicata Resale Price Method residential house restitution Retirement retraction Retrospective amendment retrospective operation Return of Income revenue recognition revised return Revision Revision u/s 263 revocable transfer Right to Information Act 2005 right to sue rights in a property risk adjustment royalty RPM RTI Act S. 43B deduction s. 50C s. 80(3) of Companies Act 1956 safe harbour rules salaries salary sales-tax sales-tax remission sales-tax tribunal sanction SARFAESI Act satellite satisfaction scam scientific research scope of appeal Scope of scrutiny scrap sales sear search and seizure Search assessment Secondment agreement Section 153A- Search and Seizure section 254(2) Section 68 cash credit Securities Transaction Tax securitization of lease receivables seized cash self assessment tax Service service by affixture service charges service of notice Service PE service-tax set-off of loss setting up of business Settlement Commission sexual harassment sham transactions share application money share capital share premium shares sharing of profit shell company shipping income short-term capital gains Sikkim Lottery situs of intangible property Slot Charters SLP slump sale Small scale industrial undertaking software licensing sogo shosha source of income Special Audit Special Bench Special Leave Petition Specific trust Specified Domestic Transactions speculative loss stamp duty valuation start up costs statement on oath Static vs. Ambulatory interpretation of DTAAs stay of assessment proceedings stay of demand stay of judgement stay of penalty proceedings stay of prosection proceedings sticky advances Stock Appreciation Rights Stock Exchange Card stock options stock-in-trade STPI strategic investment strict construction strictures subsidy substantial expansion substantial question of law subvention successor sufficient cause supporting manufacturer supression of sales surplus surrender survey system software tax tax audit tax avoidance Tax Credit tax evasion tax planning tax rate Tax Recovery Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) Taxability Taxation of foreign branches TCS default TDR TDS TDS credit TDS deduction TDS default TDS disallowance TDS reconciliation technical knowhow technosavvy terrace Third Member tips TNMM Toll Road Tonnage Tax Scheme total turnover TP Adjustment only on AE transactions transfer transfer fees transfer of case transfer of preference shares to equity shares Transfer Pricing Transfer Pricing investment in share capital of wholly owned subsidiary Transferable Development Right transmission fees transperent entities treaty override turnover Turnover Filter ultra vires unaccounted income unclaimed liabilities undertaking underutilization of capacity undervaluation undisclosed assessment Undisclosed Income undivided share of co-owner unexplained cash credit unexplained expenditure unexplained gifts unexplained income unexplained investment unlawful expenditure Unpaid Service Tax usance charges use of asset vacancy allowance vakalatnama valuation of property valuation of shares valuation of stock-in-trade VAT Tribunal verification vested right video conferencing Vivad se Vishwas Void waiver of income waiver of loan wealth-tax web hosting charges whatsapp withdrawal of appeal working capital adjustment Works Contract Writ jurisdiction Writ Petition write-off of debts wrong claim vs. false claim year of taxability genre — all — domes Domestic Tax International Tax Other Laws Transfer Pricing Reset (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Recent Posts Tata Communications Ltd vs. UOI (Bombay High Court) Teleperformance Global Services Private Limited vs. ACIT (Bombay High Court) DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad) Maria Fernandes Cheryl vs. ITO (ITAT Mumbai) Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Limited vs. Bishal Jaiswal (Supreme Court) Recent CommentsSamir Bhuptani on CIT vs. D. K. Garg (Delhi High Court)Article on ADIT vs. E-Funds IT Solution Inc (Supreme Court)Sejal on Maria Fernandes Cheryl vs. ITO (ITAT Mumbai)Sejal on DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad)Sejal on DCIT vs. Ozone India Ltd (ITAT Ahmedabad)Archives April 2021 (8) March 2021 (8) January 2021 (9) December 2020 (4) November 2020 (2) October 2020 (2) September 2020 (3) August 2020 (5) July 2020 (9) June 2020 (12) May 2020 (9) April 2020 (9) March 2020 (16) February 2020 (19) January 2020 (10) December 2019 (10) November 2019 (13) October 2019 (22) September 2019 (11) August 2019 (16) July 2019 (15) June 2019 (18) May 2019 (9) April 2019 (31) March 2019 (21) February 2019 (20) January 2019 (12) December 2018 (24) November 2018 (25) October 2018 (27) September 2018 (28) August 2018 (36) July 2018 (29) June 2018 (27) May 2018 (25) April 2018 (27) March 2018 (28) February 2018 (12) January 2018 (22) December 2017 (24) November 2017 (18) October 2017 (16) September 2017 (30) August 2017 (18) July 2017 (22) June 2017 (18) May 2017 (29) April 2017 (21) March 2017 (20) February 2017 (16) January 2017 (32) December 2016 (24) November 2016 (15) October 2016 (15) September 2016 (21) August 2016 (25) July 2016 (15) June 2016 (13) May 2016 (37) April 2016 (45) March 2016 (36) February 2016 (30) January 2016 (20) December 2015 (11) November 2015 (37) October 2015 (31) September 2015 (27) August 2015 (35) July 2015 (43) June 2015 (29) May 2015 (28) April 2015 (29) March 2015 (43) February 2015 (30) January 2015 (38) December 2014 (43) November 2014 (58) October 2014 (93) September 2014 (14) August 2014 (22) July 2014 (24) June 2014 (24) May 2014 (19) April 2014 (20) March 2014 (12) February 2014 (40) January 2014 (17) December 2013 (20) November 2013 (15) October 2013 (12) September 2013 (13) August 2013 (13) July 2013 (10) June 2013 (12) May 2013 (24) April 2013 (27) March 2013 (13) February 2013 (15) January 2013 (16) December 2012 (17) November 2012 (13) October 2012 (14) September 2012 (27) August 2012 (33) July 2012 (21) June 2012 (17) May 2012 (29) April 2012 (35) March 2012 (31) February 2012 (24) January 2012 (22) December 2011 (19) November 2011 (25) October 2011 (13) September 2011 (17) August 2011 (13) July 2011 (21) June 2011 (22) May 2011 (19) April 2011 (23) March 2011 (28) February 2011 (23) January 2011 (21) December 2010 (23) November 2010 (12) October 2010 (17) September 2010 (10) August 2010 (11) July 2010 (14) June 2010 (10) May 2010 (16) April 2010 (8) March 2010 (11) February 2010 (11) January 2010 (12) December 2009 (14) November 2009 (12) October 2009 (9) September 2009 (11) August 2009 (14) July 2009 (13) June 2009 (2) May 2009 (7) April 2009 (10) March 2009 (14) February 2009 (11) January 2009 (17) December 2008 (12) November 2008 (11) October 2008 (13) September 2008 (22) August 2008 (19) July 2008 (9) June 2008 (4) May 2008 (9) April 2008 (12) March 2008 (9) February 2008 (19) January 2008 (13)