News Listing Search ▼ Search document.getElementById('search').setAttribute('placeholder', 'Search by Title, Keywords, Entity Name'); Date : document.getElementById('fromDate').setAttribute('placeholder', 'DD-MM-YYYY'); To document.getElementById('toDate').setAttribute('placeholder', 'DD-MM-YYYY'); Department -- All Department -- Alternative Investment Fund and Foreign Portfolio Investors Department Board Cell Communications Department Corporation Finance Department Corporation Finance Investigation Department Department Economic and Policy Analysis Department of Debt and Hybrid Securities Enforcement Department - 1 Enquiries and Adjudication Department General Services Department - 1 General Services Department - 2 General Services Department - 3 Human Resources Department Information Technology Department Integrated Surveillance Department Internal Inspection Department Investigations Department Investment Management Department Legal Affairs Department 1 (LAD 1) Vertical-I Legal Affairs Department 1 (Vertical 2) Market Intermediaries Regulation and Supervision Department Market Regulation Department National Institute of Securities Markets Office of International Affairs Office of Investor Assistance and Education Office of the Chairperson Office of WTM PACL Committtee Parliament Questions (PQ) Cell & Right to Information (RTI) Cell Prosecution and Settlement Department Quasi-Judicial Cell Recovery and Refund department Regional Offices Regulatory Review Cell SAT - SC Department Vigilance Department Section -- All Section -- Legal Enforcement Filings Reports & Statistics Media & Notifications Sub Section -- All Sub Section -- Sub Sub Section -- All Sub Section List -- Intermediary -- All Sub Section List -- Info For -- All Info for -- Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) Bankers to an Issue Collective Investment Schemes (C.I.S) Commodity Derivatives Corp. Debt Market COVID-19 Measures Credit Rating Agencies Debenture Trustees Depository Participants Derivatives Electronic Gold Receipts Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI) Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) International Affairs Investigation Investment Advisers Investor Survey Issues And Listing Legal Affairs Listing Regulations Merchant Bankers Municipal Debt Securities Mutual Fund Portfolio Managers Prosecution Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents Research Analysts Stock Brokers Takeover Trading, etc Underwriters Venture Capital GO Reset 1 to 25 of 55 records 1 2 3  Date Type Title Aug 02, 2010 Orders Show Cause Notices in the matter of dealings by Reliance Natural Resources Limited and Reliance Infrstructure Ltd Mar 16, 2009 Orders Consent order in respect of M/s. ITI Financial Services Limited Sep 28, 2007 Press Releases Order in the matter of M/s. Ojas Technochem Products Ltd. Sep 27, 2007 Press Releases Order in the matter of M/s. Atlanta Ltd. Sep 10, 2007 Press Releases Order against M/s. Pravin V. Shah Stock Broking Pvt. Ltd., Member, BSE Ltd. Dec 28, 2005 Press Releases Order against M/s. Chandravadan J. Dalal Dec 28, 2005 Press Releases Order against M/s. Kuber Finstock Pvt. Ltd Oct 31, 2005 Press Releases Suspension of Certificate of Registration of M/s.Amin Mulani Oct 04, 2005 Press Releases Pentamedia Graphics Ltd. And Its Directors Debarred Sep 30, 2005 Press Releases Order against M/s. ASK Holding Pvt. Ltd., Shri Vinod Khetan and Shri Sandeep Merchant in the matter of dealing in the scrip of M/s. AKL Soft and Infosys Ltd Sep 30, 2005 Press Releases Konkan Tyres Ltd. and its Promoters and Directors debarred Sep 30, 2005 Press Releases Order in the matter of Prime Property Development Corporation Ltd Sep 06, 2005 Press Releases Suspension of Certificate of Registration of M/s. ICDS Securities Ltd in the matter of Home Trade Ltd. Aug 16, 2005 Press Releases No action recommended against M/s. Apple Finance Ltd. in the matter of Trident Steels Ltd Aug 10, 2005 Press Releases M/s. Renaissance Securities Ltd Member, BSE warned to be careful in future Oct 18, 2004 Orders Order against CFL Securities Limited Oct 18, 2004 Orders Order agianst DGP Securities Limited Sep 21, 2004 Press Releases Order issued in the matter of application submitted by M/s. Wealth Management Advisory Services Ltd Kolkata for registration as a portfolio manager Sep 21, 2004 Orders Order Against Shri Rahul R Shah In The Case Of Synthiko Foils Limited Sep 20, 2004 Press Releases Order passed against Nuline Glassware Ltd Sep 20, 2004 Press Releases Order passed against Topline Shoes Ltd and its Directors Sep 16, 2004 Orders Order Against Anantrai A Parekh and Sons in The Matter Of Eonour Software Limited Sep 15, 2004 Press Releases Various entities and their Directors restrained from accessing the securitiesmarket and prohibited from buying, selling or dealing in securities, directly or indirectly, in the matter of investigations in the scrip of M/s. Shree Rama Multi Tech Ltd Sep 13, 2004 Orders Order against Millenium Equities (India) Private Ltd Sep 10, 2004 Orders Order against Fintech Compu Systems Ltd in the matter of Pashupati Cables Ltd 1 to 25 of 55 records 1 2 3 