Table of Contents▸ Neha v. Union of India & Ors. (Delhi High Court) The Order Background: A Fraud Problem Nine Years in the Making The Numbers Behind the Concern Additional Safeguards Suggested What Happens Next Practical Takeaway for Professionals Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Neha v. Union of India & Ors. (Delhi High Court) Delhi High Court Makes Biometric Aadhaar Authentication Mandatory for All New GST Registrations Nationwide Summary: The Delhi High Court, in Neha v. Union of India & Ors., W.P.(C) 12210/2026, issued an interim nationwide direction requiring biometric-based Aadhaar authentication before any new GST registration is granted. The direction arose from petitions alleging identity theft and fraudulent GST registrations obtained using stolen PAN and Aadhaar details. The petitioner, Neha, alleged that two GST registrations had been fraudulently obtained in her name and used in an attempt to siphon more than ₹4.46 crore from her Punjab National Bank savings account. The Court noted that identity-theft-driven fraudulent GST registrations had remained a persistent problem since the introduction of the GST regime and considered figures showing 2,800 fraudulent registrations involving approximately ₹15,085 crore in tax evasion during 2023–24 and 1,654 registrations involving approximately ₹13,109 crore during 2024–25. Although the government had earlier informed Parliament that biometric Aadhaar authentication was mandatory, the Court found that the mechanism was practically being applied only to applications classified as “risky” by the GST portal’s data-analytics system. The Court directed authorities across India to withhold registration until biometric authentication was completed, while permitting the government to place practical implementation difficulties before it. Suggestions concerning PAN–Aadhaar mismatch parameters, facial recognition and identity corroboration were also placed before the Court. The matter is next listed for September 22, 2026. The Order In a significant interim direction with nationwide implications, the Delhi High Court has ruled that no new GST registration can be granted anywhere in India without biometric-based Aadhaar authentication. Under Section 25 of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, persons liable to registration are required to obtain GST registration, while the registration procedure is prescribed under the Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017. Until now, this stringent verification step was applied only to applications that the GST portal’s risk-analytics system flagged as “risky.” The Court has done away with that selective approach, directing all authorities across the country to withhold registration from every applicant until biometric Aadhaar verification is completed. The Bench did leave room for course correction, granting the government liberty to bring to its notice any practical difficulties that may arise in rolling out the measure uniformly. Background: A Fraud Problem Nine Years in the Making The order arose from a batch of petitions, including one filed by a woman named Neha, who alleged that two separate GST registrations had been fraudulently obtained in her name using her stolen PAN and Aadhaar details. According to her petition, the fraud was allegedly used in an attempt to siphon off more than ₹4.46 crore from her savings account with Punjab National Bank. She had approached the GST authorities with complaints as early as March 2026, but after receiving no effective response, moved the High Court seeking a proper investigation. A related petition, Vikram Kaushal v. Director General of Income Tax (Investigation) & Ors. [W.P.(C) 6218/2026], raised similar concerns and was heard alongside Neha’s case. The Court observed that identity-theft-driven fake GST registrations have remained a persistent problem for nearly nine years since the GST regime came into force, leaving innocent citizens saddled with tax liabilities for businesses they had no connection to, while also causing substantial revenue loss to the exchequer. The Numbers Behind the Concern The Bench relied on figures placed before the Rajya Sabha by the Union Minister of State for Finance: 2023–24: 2,800 fraudulent GST registrations detected, involving tax evasion of approximately ₹15,085 crore 2024–25: 1,654 such fraudulent registrations detected, involving approximately ₹13,109 crore in tax evasion Notably, the government had earlier told Parliament that biometric Aadhaar authentication for GST registration was already mandatory. The Court, however, found that this was not the ground reality — the mechanism was in practice being applied only to applications marked “risky” by the system’s data-analytics parameters, not universally. The Bench remarked that despite more than a year having passed since that parliamentary statement, it did not appear to have been fully implemented. Additional Safeguards Suggested Senior Advocate Tarun Gulati, assisting the Court, placed before it a set of suggestions to further tighten the registration process, including: Enabling the Directorate General of Analytics and Risk Management to create a dedicated risk parameter for PAN–Aadhaar mismatches and for “first-time use” of a PAN/Aadhaar combination for GST registration Making facial recognition matching against the Aadhaar database mandatory during registration Requiring applicants to nominate identifiable persons — such as business associates, employees, partners, or family members — who can corroborate the applicant’s identity and the genuineness of the proposed business The existing GST registration framework requires applicants to furnish PAN, mobile number, e-mail address and other particulars before a temporary reference number is generated. The registration process, including verification and Aadhaar authentication, is also explained in GST Rule 14A Registration: Process, Documents and Withdrawal. The Court has asked the authorities to examine these suggestions and report back at the next hearing. What Happens Next The direction is interim in nature and does not amount to final disposal of the petitions. Unless modified, however, the operative direction stands: biometric Aadhaar authentication is now a mandatory precondition for GST registration anywhere in the country. The matter is next listed for September 22, 2026, when the authorities are expected to respond, including on any practical implementation challenges. Practical Takeaway for Professionals Tax consultants, chartered accountants, and legal practitioners advising clients on fresh GST registrations should factor biometric Aadhaar authentication into the process from the outset — not as a contingency for “risky” applications, but as a standard, unavoidable step for every application. Building this into client onboarding and registration timelines now can help avoid last-minute delays as GST Suvidha Kendras and registration portals adjust to universal enforcement. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Registrationhigh court judgments Author Info Name: CA Pawan Kumar Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Pawan Kumar & Co Location: NEW DELHI, Delhi Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Delhi HC Directs Biometric Aadhaar Authentication for Every GST Registration September 13, 2026 Delhi High Court Directs One-Week Decision on Withheld IGST Refund September 13, 2026 GST Recovery Barred while Statutory Period to Approach GSTAT still Available: Madras HC September 13, 2026 SC drops Rs. 363 crores GST Demand against Vodafone Idea Post-Merger September 13, 2026 Fraud Across Financial Years: Case for Bunched SCNs Under CGST Act September 12, 2026 GSTAT Kolkata allows ITC refund where packing inputs bear higher GST rate than packaged tea September 12, 2026