Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12849 Case Name Smart Commute Foundation Vs CIT (ITAT Mumbai) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All ITAT, ITAT Mumbai Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Smart Commute Foundation Vs CIT (ITAT Mumbai) ONE MISSED E-MAIL CANNOT BURY CHARITY—RENEWAL u/s 12AB RESTORED FOR AN EFFECTIVE OPPORTUNITY The Mumbai ITAT has held that an application for renewal of registration u/s 12AB should not be rejected merely because the charitable institution failed to furnish documents in response to one notice, particularly when it claims that it was unaware of the communication sent through e-mail & is ready to produce the required material. Emphasising natural justice, the Tribunal restored the matter to the CIT(E) for fresh adjudication after providing a sufficient & effective opportunity. Facts of the case The assessee, Smart Commute Foundation, filed an application in Form No. 10AB on 30.09.2025 seeking renewal of its registration u/s 12AB. The application was made u/s 12A(1)(ac)(ii) of the Income-tax Act, 1961. Upon examining the application, the CIT(E) noticed that it was incomplete & that all the documents prescribed under Rule 17A(2) had not been furnished. The CIT(E), therefore, issued a notice dated 30.01.2026 calling upon the assessee to furnish the complete set of documents & information required for examining its application. According to the CIT(E), the assessee did not comply with all the requirements of the notice before the order was passed. In the absence of the relevant documents, the CIT(E) stated that he was unable to record the statutory satisfaction regarding the objects of the institution, genuineness of its activities & compliance with other laws material for achieving its objects. Consequently, by order dated 02.03.2026, the CIT(E) rejected the application for renewal of registration u/s 12AB. Assessee’s explanation before the ITAT The assessee submitted that it was not aware of the communication reportedly sent through e-mail & therefore could not furnish the required details & documents before the CIT(E). It was contended that the assessee was genuinely engaged in charitable activities & possessed all the documents, supporting records & other material necessary to demonstrate the genuineness of its activities as well as its eligibility for renewal of registration. The assessee pleaded that the application should not be finally rejected merely on account of its failure to respond to one communication. In the interest of natural justice, it sought one more effective opportunity to submit the relevant documents before the CIT(E). Accordingly, the assessee requested the ITAT to set aside the rejection order & restore the application to the CIT(E) for fresh adjudication. Revenue’s contention The Revenue supported the order of the CIT(E) & submitted that the assessee had already been provided an opportunity. The notice dated 30.01.2026 specifically required the assessee to furnish the complete documents & details necessary for deciding the renewal application. Since the assessee failed to respond adequately, the CIT(E) could not satisfy himself regarding its objects, activities & statutory compliance. The Revenue therefore argued that the rejection of the application for non-compliance was justified & should be upheld. ITAT’s findings The Tribunal examined the order of the CIT(E) & noticed that the application had been rejected substantially because the assessee failed to furnish the requisite information & documents. The rejection was not based upon any conclusive finding that the assessee’s objects were non-charitable, that its activities were not genuine or that it had violated any law material to the achievement of its objects. The CIT(E) was unable to examine these matters because the supporting material had not been produced. The ITAT also considered the assessee’s explanation that it was unaware of the communication sent through e-mail & therefore could not effectively respond. The assessee had specifically represented before the Tribunal that it possessed the relevant documents & was ready and willing to furnish them. In these circumstances, the Tribunal held that the requirements of natural justice demanded that a sufficient & effective opportunity be provided to the assessee to establish its charitable status & the genuineness of its activities. Merely because one opportunity had been granted & the requisite details were not furnished in response, the claim for registration u/s 12AB should not be brought to an end without providing a further effective opportunity, particularly when the assessee expressed its willingness to comply. Matter restored to CIT(E) To render substantial justice, the ITAT set aside the impugned order & restored the matter to the file of the CIT(E) for fresh adjudication. The CIT(E) was directed to provide the assessee sufficient & effective opportunity to furnish its documents, explanations & other supporting details. After considering the material produced & providing a reasonable opportunity of hearing, the CIT(E) was directed to decide the application afresh in accordance with law by passing an appropriate speaking order. The Tribunal clarified that it had expressed no opinion on the merits of the assessee’s application & that all issues remained open for fresh examination. At the same time, the ITAT directed the assessee to cooperate fully, furnish all documents relied upon by it as well as any further information called for by the CIT(E), avail the opportunity granted & avoid unnecessary adjournments. The appeal was accordingly allowed for statistical purposes. Author’s comments The decision draws an important distinction between rejection for lack of eligibility & rejection for lack of documents. Where the authority has not reached an adverse conclusion on the charitable nature of the objects or genuineness of activities, but rejects the application merely because supporting documents were not furnished, a reasonable opportunity to cure the default ordinarily advances substantial justice. Registration u/s 12AB is undoubtedly conditional upon the CIT(E)’s statutory satisfaction. However, such satisfaction must follow a meaningful enquiry conducted after granting the applicant an effective opportunity, not merely the mechanical issuance of a notice. The relief is not unconditional. The assessee must now furnish every relevant document, cooperate with the proceedings & avoid unnecessary adjournments. Natural justice provides another opportunity—but not an endless subscription to missed e-mails. FULL TEXT OF THE ORDER OF ITAT MUMBAI This appeal is filed by the assessee against the order dated 02.03.2026 passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemptions), Mumbai, whereby the application filed by the assessee seeking renewal of registration under section 12AB of the Income-tax Act, 1961 came to be rejected. 2. The assessee, Smart Commute Foundation, filed an application in Form 10AB under section 12A(1)(ac)(ii) of the Act on 30.09.2025 seeking renewal of registration under section 12AB of the Act. The learned Commissioner, on verification of the application, observed that the application was not complete and that all the documents required to accompany the application had not been furnished. Accordingly, a notice dated 30.01.2026 was issued to the assessee requiring it to furnish the complete set of documents and details as required under Rule 17A(2). The learned Commissioner recorded that the assessee had not complied with all the terms of the said notice till the date of passing of the order. He further observed that registration under section 12AB is to be granted after being satisfied about the objects of the trust or institution, the genuineness of its activities and compliance with any other law for the time being in force which is material for achieving its objects. Since, according to the learned Commissioner, the necessary compliance had not been made by the assessee, he was unable to arrive at a satisfactory conclusion on these parameters and, accordingly, rejected the application for renewal of registration under section 12AB of the Act. 3. Aggrieved by the aforesaid order of the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemptions), the assessee has preferred the present appeal before the Tribunal. The learned Authorised Representative (“ld.AR”) appearing for the assessee submitted that the assessee was not aware of the communication stated to have been sent through e-mail and, therefore, could not furnish the requisite details and documents before the learned Commissioner. It was submitted that the assessee is engaged in charitable activities and that it has all the necessary documents and supporting material to establish the genuineness of its activities and to substantiate its claim for registration under section 12AB of the Act. The ld.AR submitted that, in the interest of natural justice, the assessee ought to be granted one more effective opportunity to place all the relevant documents and details before the learned Commissioner. He accordingly submitted that the impugned order may be set aside and the matter may be restored to the file of the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemptions) for fresh adjudication after providing sufficient and effective opportunity to the assessee. 4. The learned Departmental Representative (“ld.DR”), on the other hand, relied upon the order passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemptions) and submitted that an opportunity had in fact been granted to the assessee. He pointed out that the learned Commissioner had issued notice dated 30.01.2026 calling upon the assessee to furnish the complete set of documents and details required for consideration of the application, but the assessee failed to furnish the requisite submissions and documents. It was, therefore, submitted that the learned Commissioner was justified in rejecting the application for renewal of registration under section 12AB on account of non-compliance with the notice and that the impugned order ought to be sustained. 5. We have heard the rival submissions and perused the material available on record. The perusal of the order passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemptions) shows that the application filed by the assessee was found to be incomplete and that a notice dated 30.01.2026 was issued requiring the assessee to furnish the requisite documents and details. The learned Commissioner has thereafter proceeded to reject the application on the ground that the assessee had not complied with all the terms of the notice and, consequently, the necessary satisfaction regarding the objects of the trust or institution, the genuineness of its activities and the other relevant requirements could not be arrived at. Thus, the rejection of the application is substantially founded upon the non-furnishing of the requisite information and documents by the assessee. 6. We have also considered the submission of the ld.AR that the assessee was not aware of the communication sent through e-mail and, therefore, could not effectively respond to the same. The assessee has further submitted that it is engaged in charitable activities and possesses the relevant documents and material necessary to establish the genuineness of its activities. In these circumstances, we are of the considered view that the requirement of natural justice would warrant that sufficient and effective opportunity be granted to the assessee to establish its status as a charitable institution and the genuineness of its activities. Merely because one opportunity was granted and the requisite details were not furnished in response thereto, the claim of the assessee for registration under section 12AB should not, in the facts of the present case, be brought to an end without providing a further effective opportunity, particularly when the assessee has stated before us that it is ready and willing to furnish the relevant documents and details. 7. In view of the foregoing discussion and in order to render substantial justice, we deem it appropriate to set aside the impugned order passed by the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemptions) and restore the matter to his file for fresh adjudication. The learned Commissioner shall provide sufficient and effective opportunity to the assessee to furnish the documents, explanations and other details in support of its application for renewal of registration under section 12AB of the Act. After considering the material furnished by the assessee and after providing reasonable opportunity of being heard, the learned Commissioner shall decide the application afresh in accordance with law by passing an appropriate and speaking order. We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the assessee’s application and all issues are left open for fresh consideration by the learned Commissioner. 8. The assessee, on its part, shall fully cooperate with the proceedings before the learned Commissioner of Income Tax (Exemptions) and shall furnish all the documents and details upon which it seeks to rely in support of its claim, as well as such further information and documents as may be called for by the learned Commissioner. The assessee shall avail the opportunity so granted and shall not seek unnecessary adjournments. The learned Commissioner, after considering the material furnished by the assessee and after granting sufficient opportunity, shall pass an order afresh in accordance with law. 9. In the result, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed for statistical purposes. Order pronounced in the open Court on 08.09.2026. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under ITAT JudgmentsSection 12AB Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,332 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty ITAT Nagpur Deletes Jewellery Addition and Rejects Retrospective Section 115BBE Tax September 10, 2026 Supreme Court Acquits Accused as Pecuniary Advantage Not Proved Under PC Act September 10, 2026 Notice to Firm Sufficient for Recovery of Firm Property: Madras High Court September 10, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Annual Crisis of 30th September Tax Audit Deadline September 10, 2026 ITAT Condones 163-Day Delay and Remands Section 69A Assessment for Fresh Adjudication September 10, 2026 153C Notice Quashed as Deemed Search Date Fell After Cut-off: Delhi ITAT September 10, 2026 Section 153C Assessments Quashed as Deemed Search Date Fell After 01.04.2021 by Delhi ITAT September 10, 2026 Mumbai ITAT Quashes Reassessment for Pre-Return 143(2) Notice, Deletes ₹2 Crore Section 68 Addition September 10, 2026 Penny-Stock LTCG Addition Deleted Without Assessee-Specific Evidence: ITAT Delhi September 10, 2026