Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13650 Case Name Ravikiran Netla Vs ITO (ITAT Bangalore) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Related Assessment Year 2014-15 Courts All ITAT, ITAT Bangalore Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Ravikiran Netla Vs ITO (ITAT Bangalore) Summary: ITAT Bangalore considered the assessee’s appeal against confirmation of penalty of Rs.3,45,400 under section 271(1)(c) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 for assessment year 2014-15. The assessee had originally returned income of Rs.27,79,800 with a TDS claim of Rs.6,83,858 and subsequently a revised return was filed declaring income of Rs.16,62,000 and claiming refund of Rs.3,45,400. The Assessing Officer found that housing-loan interest and other deductions claimed under Chapter VIA were unsupported by proper evidence, disallowed the claims and consequently imposed penalty. Before the Tribunal, the assessee contended that the revised return and fictitious deduction claims were made by Mr. Nagesh Shastry, an Income Tax Practitioner, without the assessee’s knowledge. It was argued that the practitioner retained the requisite passwords, used his own mobile details, and was allegedly involved in fraudulent refund claims discovered by the Investigation Wing. The assessee further submitted that the entire refund had subsequently been recovered through attachment of his bank account. The Revenue maintained that the fraudulent refund could not have been claimed without the assessee’s knowledge. The Tribunal noted that, in the quantum appeal order dated 19.02.2018, the CIT(Appeals) had recorded that Mr. Nagesh Shastry was instrumental in filing the revised return, but this factual aspect and the related arguments had not been considered in the penalty proceedings. It held that the crucial question was whether the practitioner was solely responsible for claiming the fraudulent refund and whether the assessee had acted bona fide. If those facts were established, penalty could not be levied on the assessee. The matter was therefore remanded to the CIT(Appeals) for fresh consideration of all relevant facts after giving the assessee an opportunity of hearing. The appeal was allowed for statistical purposes. FULL TEXT OF THE ORDER OF ITAT BANGALORE This appeal by the assessee is directed against the order dated 03.05.2018 of the CIT(Appeals)-6, Bengaluru relating to assessment year 2014-15. The assessee has raised various grounds with regard to penalty levied u/s. 271(1)(c) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 [the Act]. 2. The brief facts of the case are that the assessee filed return of income after declaring total income of Rs.27,79,800 with TDS claim of Rs.6,83,858. Later the assessee filed revised return declaring total income of Rs.16,62,000 and refund claim of Rs.3,45,400. It was found that assessee’s claim of housing loan interest and other deductions under Chapter VIA were not supported by proper evidence. Accordingly, these claims under Chapter VIA were disallowed by the AO. Consequently, penalty u/s. 271(1)(c) of the Act was levied at Rs.3,45,400. 3. Before the CIT(Appeals), the assessee challenged the levy of penalty u/s. 271(1)(c) on the ground that penalty notice u/s. 274 of the Act was bad in law. However, the CIT(Appeals) held that issue of notice u/s. 274 is valid and consequent framing of penalty order is also valid. Even on merits, levy of penalty was confirmed by the CIT(Appeals). 4. Before us, the ld. AR for the assessee submitted that the case was mishandled by one Mr. Nagesh Shastry, Income Tax Practitioner, who has been indulging in claim of fraudulent refunds by fictitious claim of deductions, which was unearthed by the Investigation Wing of the Income Tax Department. It was submitted that without the knowledge of assessee, Mr. Nagesh Shastry has filed revised return and all requisite password, etc. was kept with him and by giving the mobile number of Mr. Nagesh Shastry only. It was submitted that the Mobile no. & email address given to the department in original return and revised return were different, which can be looked into so as to see the veracity of the assessee’s statement. Further it was submitted that the entire refund issued is recovered back by the income-tax authorities by way of attaching bank account of assessee. According to the ld. AR, there was no fault of assessee in filing the revised return so as to claim the fraudulent refund. The entire issue of claim of fraudulent refund is by Mr. Nagesh Shastry only and the assessee was bonafide in his action and there was no fault from the assessee’s side. 5. The ld. DR submitted that the entire claim of fraudulent refund was with full knowledge of assessee and the assessee at this stage cannot say that it was handiwork of Mr. Nagesh Shastry. 6. We have heard both the parties and perused the material on record. In the quantum appeal order dated 19.2.2018, the CIT(Appeals) recorded these facts in para 5 of his order that Mr. Nagesh Shastry was instrumental in fling the revised return. However, the same facts and arguments in the penalty proceedings are not considered by the CIT(Appeals). In our opinion, it is proper to examine whether Mr. Nagesh Shastry is instrumental in claiming fraudulent refund on behalf of assessee by indulging in malpractices. If Mr. Nagesh Shastry is found solely responsible for such fraudulent act and that assessee’s act is bonafide, penalty cannot be levied. With these observations, we remand this issue to the file of the CIT(Appeals) to consider all these facts and decide the issue afresh in accordance with law, after affording assessee opportunity of being heard. 7. In the result, the appeal of assessee is allowed for statistical purposes. Pronounced in the open court on this 10th day of September, 2020. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under ITAT Judgmentssection 271(1)(c) Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,249 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Flat Sale Gains Taxable as Capital Gains; Search Additions Deleted: ITAT Mumbai September 22, 2026 No Section 153A Addition Without Incriminating Search Material: ITAT Mumbai September 22, 2026 Section 147 Reassessment Invalid After Search Triggered Section 153A: ITAT Mumbai September 22, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Repaid Bank Loans Cannot Be Treated as Unexplained Credits: Gujarat HC September 22, 2026 Form 10AB Typographical Error Requires Fresh Registration Adjudication: ITAT Delhi September 22, 2026 Share Premium, Bogus Purchases & Demonetisation Additions Deleted: Delhi HC September 22, 2026 Post-Resolution Income Tax Assessment Violates IBC Clean Slate: Delhi HC September 22, 2026 Section 54 Relief Allowed for Two Flats Used as One Home: ITAT Mumbai September 22, 2026 Ludhiana Taxation Bar Seeks Tax Audit Deadline Extension to 31 October 2026 September 22, 2026