Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13865 Case Name Ajaybhai Natwarbhai ODD Vs Additional Commissioner (Anti-Evasion) & Ors (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Ajaybhai Natwarbhai ODD Vs Additional Commissioner (Anti-Evasion) & Ors (Supreme Court of India) High Court proceedings In the Gujarat High Court, counsel for the petitioner sought permission to withdraw the writ petition so that an appeal could be filed before the appropriate forum. The High Court granted permission and disposed of the petition as withdrawn, with the liberty sought. The supplied High Court order records no ruling on the underlying GST dispute. Supreme Court order and effect The petitioners then approached the Supreme Court through Special Leave Petitions. After condoning the filing delay and hearing their senior counsel, the Court found no ground to entertain the petitions and dismissed them. The supplied order does not set out the petitioners’ substantive grounds or a detailed assessment of them. The Supreme Court reiterated that the petitioners could raise all grounds before the Goods and Services Tax Appellate Tribunal (GSTAT), including those urged in the Special Leave Petitions. It also permitted them to apply under Section 5 read with Section 14 of the Limitation Act, 1963. If they do, GSTAT must consider the application sympathetically, having regard to their pursuit of the cause before a wrong forum. The High Court’s disposal of the writ petition as withdrawn remains in place. The Supreme Court did not decide the GST grounds or grant relief on limitation; those issues remain for GSTAT to consider if an appeal and application are filed. condonation-delay-gst-appeals-limitation-act-1963.html?utm_source=chatgpt.com “Condonation of delay in GST Appeals and Limitation Act, 1963” FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER Delay condoned. 2. We have heard the learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner(s). We find no ground to entertain the Special Leave Petitions. Hence, Special Leave Petitions are, hereby, dismissed. 3. However, we reiterate that liberty granted by the High Court to raise all grounds before the Goods and Services Tax Appellate Tribunal (GSTAT), including the ones urged in the present Special Leave Petitions. The petitioner(s) shall also be at liberty to file application under Section 5 read with Section 14 of the Limitation Act, 1963. In the event of such an application being filed, the GSTAT shall consider it sympathetically, having regard to the fact that petitioner(s) were prosecuting their rightful cause before a wrong forum. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTsupreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,385 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Higher GST on Packing Materials Entitles Tea Supplier to Inverted Duty Refund: GSTAT Kolkata September 26, 2026 Punjab and Haryana HC Bars Importer from Demurrage Liability After Customs Delay September 26, 2026 Allahabad High Court Sets Aside ₹2.63 Crore Order Against ₹8.5 Lakh Notice September 26, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Higher GST on Packing Materials Entitles Tea Supplier to Inverted Duty Refund: GSTAT Kolkata September 26, 2026 Allahabad High Court Sets Aside ₹2.63 Crore Order Against ₹8.5 Lakh Notice September 26, 2026 Punjab and Haryana HC Grants Regular Bail in Alleged Rs. 156 Crore GST Evasion Case September 26, 2026 Delayed GST Payment: Understanding Interest Liability and Its Legal Consequences September 25, 2026 GST Appellate Tribunal: Will It Resolve GST Disputes More Efficiently? September 25, 2026 GST on UPI Payments: What Is Really Changing from 15 October 2026 September 25, 2026