Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13838 Case Name ‘R’ Vs ‘E’ & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); ‘R’ Vs ‘E’ & Anr. (Supreme Court of India) When a POCSO Complaint Becomes a Weapon in a Custody Battle: Supreme Court Lays Down Safeguards A child caught between two estranged parents needs protection, not another reason to fear either parent. In a judgment arising from a bitter custody dispute in Bengaluru, the Supreme Court examined a POCSO allegation against the father, the effect of that allegation on custody proceedings, and the precautions authorities must take when such complaints arise amid matrimonial conflict. The Court quashed the POCSO FIR against the father and directed that the child’s legal custody would rest with him. Since the child had been living with the mother, however, it ordered a supervised process of reintegration, rather than an abrupt transfer of physical custody. The judgment also lays down safeguards for a defined category of POCSO cases. Those safeguards require care in assessing allegations while preserving the law’s central purpose: the protection and well-being of children. The parents, identified as ‘R’ and ‘E’ to protect their privacy, married in 2011. Their child, ‘M’, was born in 2015. The relationship deteriorated, and the mother left the matrimonial home with the child in April 2018. What followed was prolonged litigation involving guardianship, custody and criminal allegations. Against that background, a POCSO FIR was registered against the father in March 2024. After examining the material, including a CBI investigation, the Supreme Court concluded that the 2024 FIR had been lodged to create a basis for returning custody to the mother. It quashed that FIR. It also brought the connected litigation addressed in the judgment to a close, including an earlier criminal case arising from the parents’ dispute. The Court did not treat the custody consequence as a simple matter of handing the child over immediately. Although it vested legal custody in the father, it recognised that physical custody had been with the mother since March 2024. It therefore sent the matter to the Family Court in Bengaluru for a carefully managed reintegration, assisted by a committee that includes CBI officers and specialists from NIMHANS. The committee may recommend interim arrangements and visitation during the transition; after reintegration, the Family Court is to make an appropriate visitation order for the mother. The wider importance of the judgment lies in its directions on how similar allegations should be handled. The safeguards apply only where both conditions exist: a POCSO offence is alleged against a parent or another family member living under the same roof as the child, and there is a matrimonial dispute between the child’s parents, whether or not that dispute is already before a court. The police officer receiving the complaint must verify the existence of that dispute. For cases arising from an FIR, the Court cautioned investigating officers against acting in haste or making an immediate arrest merely because an allegation has been made. The officer must comply with the statutory requirements governing arrest. In the defined circumstances, the investigating officer or Special Juvenile Police Unit must ordinarily engage an expert in child and adolescent psychiatry or clinical psychology to assist the investigation. Where the material is palpable, the officer may dispense with that step in an exceptional case, but must record reasons in writing. The expert’s evaluation must be conducted independently and without pressuring or repeatedly troubling the child. Its report is an aid to the investigating officer, not a decision that binds the police. The officer must consider it alongside the other evidence when deciding whether arrest is justified. The report also cannot, by itself, determine whether a charge sheet or closure report should be filed. The Court prescribed a corresponding safeguard for a private complaint before a POCSO Special Court. Where the same two threshold conditions are met, the Special Court must apply its mind before proceeding against the accused. It should ordinarily obtain an expert evaluation and consider that report with the other circumstances before deciding whether there are sufficient grounds to issue summons. Here too, an exceptional decision to dispense with the expert must be supported by written reasons. Custody courts have a separate responsibility. The Supreme Court said that registration of a POCSO case alone does not establish that its allegation is true and should not automatically defeat an accused parent’s claim to custody or guardianship. The court dealing with custody must examine the relevant material and reach its own case-specific view, with the child’s interests at the centre of the decision. This judgment must be read with its careful limits. The Supreme Court did not suggest that a POCSO complaint made during a matrimonial dispute is necessarily false. It expressly recognised the seriousness of child sexual abuse and directed that the safeguards must not weaken the POCSO Act. Its concern was that an unsupported accusation should neither trigger an unwarranted arrest nor decide a custody case by itself. The directions also extend to investigations still underway on the date of the judgment and, for private complaints, to cases in which summons had not yet been issued. Cases Discussed Rosy Jacob vs. Jacob A. Chakramakkal, (1973) 1 SCC 840 — relied upon for the principle that the welfare of the minor is the primary consideration in custody proceedings. Geddam Jhansi and Anr. vs. State of Telangana and Ors., 2025 SCC OnLine SC 263 — discussed on the need for circumspection before criminalising matrimonial and domestic disputes through unsupported allegations. Achin Gupta vs. State of Haryana & Anr., (2025) 3 SCC 756 — discussed regarding the impact of acrimonious matrimonial disputes and criminal proceedings on children. Ishwar Chand Sharma and Ors. vs. State of Uttar Pradesh and Anr., 2026 SCC OnLine SC 1004 — discussed regarding misuse of POCSO allegations as a weapon in matrimonial and other disputes. N. Chandramohan vs. State and Another, 2019 SCC OnLine Mad 34383 — considered in the Court’s discussion concerning POCSO allegations arising in the background of matrimonial disputes. Joginder Kumar vs. State of U.P. and Ors., (1994) 4 SCC 260 — relied upon in relation to the principle that arrest cannot be made routinely merely because it is lawful to do so. Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar & Anr., , (2014) 8 SCC 273 — relied upon regarding statutory safeguards and necessity governing arrest. Satender Kumar Antil v. CBI & Anr., (2022) 10 SCC 51 — discussed in relation to arrest and personal-liberty safeguards. Satender Kumar Antil v. CBI & Anr.,(2026) 7 SCC 311 — discussed in continuation of the principles governing arrest and compliance with statutory safeguards. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,677 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty Ticket Lost After a Train Fall: Supreme Court Restores ₹8 Lakh Compensation to Passenger’s Parents September 25, 2026 30-Day Form 10B Delay Condoned on Genuine Hardship: Bombay High Court September 25, 2026 Vivad Se Vishwas Did Not Cover Separate Reassessment Addition: ITAT Mumbai September 25, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law IBC Haircuts Must Be Measured Against Remaining Economic Value, Not Claims Alone September 25, 2026 Land Border FDI Rules Clarify Beneficial Ownership Tests Under Press Note 2 September 25, 2026 Why IRDAI’s Cost Audit Revolution might be a Game-Changer for Indian Insurance? September 25, 2026 Go To Supreme Court To Get A High Court Bench In West UP: UP CM September 25, 2026 Lack of Bona Fides Defeats Corporate Applicant’s Section 10 CIRP Plea: NCLT Allahabad September 25, 2026 IBBI Imposes ₹500 Monthly Fee for Delayed Liquidation Form Filing September 24, 2026