Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref No: NSE/CML/2024/28 Date: September 30, 2024 To, The Company Secretary, All Listed Entities Subject: Introduction of the single filing system through API-based integration between Stock Exchanges This is in reference to the SEBI’s consultation paper dated June 26, 2024, titled ‘Recommendations of the Expert Committee for facilitating ease of doing business and harmonization of the provisions of ICDR and LODR regulations.’ The Committee had recommended that filing done on one Stock Exchange should be automatically disseminated to other Stock Exchange. Both the Exchanges had jointly initiated the development for the API integration to facilitate the same. In this connection, the first phase for the single filing system shall be implemented for “equity” listed and “equity and debt” listed companies for disclosure of Grievance Redressal Mechanism falling under Regulation 13(3) of SEBI LODR from October 01, 2024, onwards, which will be effective for the disclosures to be filed for quarter ended September 30, 2024. Once the aforesaid disclosure is filed on one Exchange it should be ensured that the acknowledgment is received from both the Exchanges. However, post filing as a measure of abundant precaution the listed entities have to check that the filings are available on both the Exchanges websites. The listed entities will have an option for filing the aforesaid disclosure and revision in filings at any one Exchange. It may be noted that for exclusively Debt listed companies, REITs and INVITs the said disclosure will fall under API integration in subsequent phase. In view of the same, the said companies would continue to make the disclosures on both the Exchanges as per the current practice. The aforesaid single filing system will be applicable to the entities which are listed on both the Stock Exchanges i.e. NSE and BSE. The listed entities exclusively listed on respective Stock Exchanges will continue to file the disclosure on their respective Stock Exchanges where they are listed. Since the aforesaid implementation is being aimed at enabling single filing system, the Listed Entities are requested to avoid multiple filings of the same disclosure on both the Exchanges. In case any Exchange seeks any clarification post submission, for any queries/clarifications, the company shall be required to respond to the Exchange which has sought the clarification. In case any queries concerning the captioned subject, please reach out to the respective team members on the contact details available in the NEAPS platform at path NEAPS > Help > Contact Us > Listing Compliance or send an email to takeover@nse.co.in. Yours faithfully, For National Stock Exchange of India Limited Avishkar Naik Head - Listing