Summary: Trademark registration is an important mechanism for protecting brand identity and creating enforceable intellectual property rights in India. The statutory framework is principally governed by the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and Trade Marks Rules, 2017, with applications administered through the Trade Marks Registry. The registration process begins with identifying the mark, conducting a trademark search, selecting the appropriate Nice Classification, determining whether the mark is proposed to be used or already in use, and preparing the necessary applicant and usage documents. A standard registration application is filed in Form TM-A, with government fees payable separately for each mark and class. The Registry subsequently conducts formality checks and substantive examination, during which objections may arise particularly under Section 9 concerning absolute grounds or Section 11 concerning conflicts with earlier trademarks. Applicants can respond to an Examination Report and may subsequently attend a hearing. Once accepted, the application is advertised in the Trade Marks Journal, where third parties have four months to institute opposition proceedings through Form TM-O. If no opposition is filed, or opposition proceedings conclude in favour of the applicant, the trademark proceeds to registration. Registration remains valid for 10 years and can be renewed for successive 10-year periods. Careful attention to proprietorship, classification, prior-use claims, deadlines, objections, opposition and renewal is therefore essential to effective trademark protection. Table of Contents▸ Introduction What is a Trademark? Why is Trademark Registration Important? Who Can Apply for Trademark Registration in India? Trademark Registration Process in India Step 1: Identify the Trademark to be Protected Step 2: Conduct a Trademark Search Step 3: Select the Correct Trademark Class Step 4: Decide Whether the Mark is “Proposed to be Used” or Already in Use Step 5: Prepare the Documents and Information Step 6: File Form TM-A Trademark Registration Government Fees Step 7: Application Number and Use of the ™ Symbol Step 8: Formality Check Step 9: Examination by the Trade Marks Registry Major Grounds for Trademark Objection Objection under Section 9 – Absolute Grounds Objection under Section 11 – Relative Grounds Step 10: Reply to Trademark Examination Report Step 11: Trademark Hearing Step 12: Publication in the Trade Marks Journal Step 13: Trademark Opposition What Happens If a Trademark is Opposed? Step 14: Trademark Registration Certificate How Long is a Trademark Registration Valid in India? How Long Does Trademark Registration Take in India? Important Trademark Application Statuses Common Mistakes During Trademark Registration Word Mark vs Logo Trademark: Which Should You Register? Can a Trademark Be Registered in Multiple Classes? Trademark Registration for Startups and Small Enterprises Trademark Registration for Foreign Applicants Benefits of Professional Trademark Assistance Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions Show all 35 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction A trademark is much more than a business name or logo. It is an important intellectual property asset that helps customers identify the source of goods or services and distinguish one business from another. As businesses increasingly operate through websites, e-commerce platforms, social media and digital marketplaces, protecting a brand at an early stage has become an important part of business planning. In India, trademarks are primarily governed by the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and the Trade Marks Rules, 2017. Trademark applications are administered by the Trade Marks Registry under the Office of the Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trade Marks. A trademark application can be filed by an individual, startup, company, partnership firm, LLP, trust, society or other person or entity claiming to be the proprietor of the mark. Foreign applicants may also seek trademark protection in India. This guide explains the complete trademark registration process in India, including trademark searches, classification, documents, government fees, examination, objections, hearings, publication, opposition, registration and renewal. What is a Trademark? A trademark is a mark used to distinguish the goods or services of one person or business from those offered by others. Depending upon the nature of the business and the mark being protected, trademark protection may relate to a brand name, business name, product name, logo, label, device, packaging-related mark, shape or combination of colours, subject to the requirements of trademark law. For most businesses, the two commonly considered applications are a word mark, which protects the wording or brand name itself, and a device/logo mark, which protects a particular visual representation. Choosing the correct form of protection at the beginning is important because registration of a logo does not necessarily provide the same scope of protection as a separate registration for the underlying brand word. Why is Trademark Registration Important? Registration gives the proprietor statutory rights in relation to the registered trademark and the goods or services for which it is registered. It also creates a formal public record of the proprietor’s rights. For businesses planning to franchise, license, raise investment, expand through e-commerce or build a long-term brand, a registered trademark can become an important intangible commercial asset. Under the Trade Marks Act, registration of a mark confers rights subject to the provisions and limitations of the Act. Businesses should therefore view trademark registration not simply as obtaining a certificate but as creating and maintaining an enforceable intellectual property right. Who Can Apply for Trademark Registration in India? An application may be made by any person claiming to be the proprietor of a trademark that is being used or is proposed to be used. According to IP India, eligible applicants can include individuals, startups, small enterprises, companies, partnership firms, trusts or societies and foreign applicants. An applicant may file directly or through an authorised trademark agent or attorney. The identity of the applicant should be carefully determined before filing because the trademark ultimately becomes an asset belonging to the applicant named in the application. For example, where a company is intended to own and commercially exploit a brand, filing the application in the personal name of a promoter without proper planning may later require an assignment or transfer. Trademark Registration Process in India Trademark registration involves several stages. Filing an application does not automatically mean that the trademark is registered. The application must pass examination and publication stages and may also have to overcome objections or third-party opposition. Step 1: Identify the Trademark to be Protected The first step is identifying exactly what needs protection. A business should determine whether protection is required for the brand name, logo, product name or another distinctive brand element. Where the wording itself is commercially important, a word mark application can be particularly significant because it relates to the word itself rather than only a specific visual presentation. Where a unique logo or artistic presentation has independent brand value, a separate device mark application may also be considered. The strategy depends on the nature of the brand, its commercial use and the budget available for intellectual property protection. Step 2: Conduct a Trademark Search Before filing an application, a trademark availability search should be carried out. The objective is to identify earlier registered or pending marks that may conflict with the proposed trademark. A search should not be restricted only to an identical spelling. Similar-looking, similar-sounding and conceptually similar marks may also become relevant, particularly where the goods or services overlap. The official IP India filing guidance recommends checking existing trademarks, assessing similarity and conflicts and then determining whether the application should cover a word mark or logo mark. A careful search can help identify possible risks before significant money is spent on packaging, websites, advertising, signage and marketing. However, a search result cannot guarantee registration. The Trade Marks Registry independently examines every application, and third parties may subsequently oppose the application. Step 3: Select the Correct Trademark Class India follows the international Nice Classification system for categorising goods and services. There are 45 trademark classes. Classes 1 to 34 generally cover goods, while Classes 35 to 45 cover services. Selecting the correct class is one of the most important steps in trademark registration because trademark protection is connected to the goods and services specified in the application. For example, the same or similar brand name may sometimes exist in different industries, although various legal considerations still apply, particularly where an earlier trademark has a significant reputation or qualifies for protection as a well-known trademark. A business operating across different product or service categories may therefore require applications in more than one class. A single application can cover multiple classes, but the applicable government fee is calculated for each class. Step 4: Decide Whether the Mark is “Proposed to be Used” or Already in Use A trademark application may be filed before commercial use begins. In such cases, the applicant generally applies on a “proposed to be used” basis. Where the applicant claims that the trademark has already been used before the filing date, the application can claim an earlier date of use. This distinction is important. Where prior use is claimed, the Trade Marks Rules require an affidavit supporting the claim along with supporting documents evidencing use. Evidence may vary according to the business and facts of the case. Therefore, applicants should avoid claiming an arbitrary or unsupported date of first use. Step 5: Prepare the Documents and Information The exact documentation depends upon the type of applicant and whether prior use is claimed. Typical filing information is summarised below: Requirement Purpose Applicant name and address Identifies the proposed proprietor Legal status of applicant Individual, company, LLP, partnership, etc. Trademark representation Word mark, logo/device or other representation Description of goods/services Defines the commercial area for which protection is sought Trademark class Determines the relevant Nice Classification Date of first use, if claimed Records claimed prior commercial use User affidavit and supporting documents Required where prior use is claimed Authorisation/Power of Attorney, where applicable Authorises the trademark professional or agent to act Startup/small enterprise proof, where applicable Supports eligibility for the concessional government fee IP India specifically identifies applicant details, trademark representation, description of goods/services, user affidavit where applicable and Power of Attorney where applicable among the information and documents required for filing. Step 6: File Form TM-A A standard application for registration of a trademark is made using Form TM-A. Rule 23 of the Trade Marks Rules, 2017 provides that an application for trademark registration for goods or services shall be made in Form TM-A and signed by the applicant or authorised agent. The application includes details regarding the applicant, mark, class, specification of goods or services and basis of use. Applications can be electronically filed through the official trademark e-filing system. Once successfully filed, the application receives an application number. Trademark Registration Government Fees The government filing fee depends on the category of applicant, mode of filing and number of classes. According to the current official IP India fee schedule: Applicant Category E-Filing Fee Physical Filing Fee Individual / Startup / Small Enterprise ₹4,500 per mark per class ₹5,000 per mark per class Other Applicants ₹9,000 per mark per class ₹10,000 per mark per class These amounts are government fees. Professional fees charged by a trademark attorney, agent or professional service provider are separate. For example, if an eligible individual files one trademark in two classes electronically, the applicable government filing fee would generally be calculated for two classes. Step 7: Application Number and Use of the ™ Symbol After filing, the applicant receives an official application number that can be used to track the trademark application. Businesses commonly use the ™ symbol to indicate a claim over a trademark. The ® symbol, however, should be associated with a trademark only after it has actually been registered. Filing an application does not itself mean that registration has been granted. Step 8: Formality Check After filing, the Registry may review whether the application satisfies procedural and documentation requirements. Issues may arise from incorrect applicant information, insufficient documents, discrepancies in classification or other filing deficiencies. The Trade Marks Rules provide mechanisms for the Registry to require deficiencies to be remedied, and failure to comply with applicable requirements can have consequences for the application. Therefore, the application should be reviewed carefully before submission. Step 9: Examination by the Trade Marks Registry The trademark application is subsequently examined by the Registry. Rule 33 requires the Registrar to cause the application to be examined. As part of the process, a search is conducted among earlier registered and pending trademarks to determine whether identical or deceptively similar marks exist in relation to the same or similar goods or services. If the examiner has no objection, the application may proceed toward advertisement in the Trade Marks Journal. If objections are identified, an Examination Report is issued. Major Grounds for Trademark Objection Trademark objections frequently arise under Section 9 or Section 11 of the Trade Marks Act, 1999. Objection under Section 9 – Absolute Grounds Section 9 deals with the inherent registrability of the trademark. A mark may face refusal where, for example, it lacks distinctive character, consists exclusively of indications describing characteristics such as quality, kind, purpose or geographical origin, or consists exclusively of expressions that have become customary in trade. The section also contains restrictions relating to deceptive marks, certain prohibited matter and specified types of shapes. A strong, invented or distinctive brand is therefore generally easier to protect than a purely descriptive expression. Objection under Section 11 – Relative Grounds Section 11 primarily deals with conflict with earlier rights. An objection may arise where the proposed trademark is identical or similar to an earlier trademark and the relevant goods or services are identical or similar in circumstances giving rise to a likelihood of confusion or association. The Act also contains enhanced protection in certain circumstances for well-known trademarks. Step 10: Reply to Trademark Examination Report An objection does not automatically mean that the trademark application has been rejected. The applicant can file a reasoned response addressing the objections raised by the examiner. Under Rule 33, if the applicant does not respond within one month from receipt of the examination report, the Registrar may treat the application as abandoned. A reply may address issues such as distinctiveness, differences between competing marks, differences in goods or services, honest adoption, prior use or other legally relevant circumstances depending on the objection. The response should be drafted specifically around the grounds stated in the Examination Report rather than relying on a generic reply. Step 11: Trademark Hearing If the Registry is not satisfied with the written response, or where a hearing is otherwise required, an opportunity of hearing may be provided. The applicant or authorised representative may present legal and factual submissions before the Registrar. After considering the reply, documents and hearing submissions, the Registrar may accept the application, accept it subject to appropriate conditions or limitations, or refuse it. The Trade Marks Rules expressly provide for a hearing where the response to an examination report is not satisfactory. Step 12: Publication in the Trade Marks Journal Once the application is accepted, it is ordinarily advertised in the Trade Marks Journal. Publication is an important stage because it gives third parties an opportunity to challenge the registration. Section 20 of the Trade Marks Act deals with advertisement of accepted applications. Step 13: Trademark Opposition After publication, any person may file a notice of opposition against registration of the trademark. Under the current Trade Marks Rules, a notice of opposition is filed in Form TM-O within four months from the date of publication or re-publication in the Trade Marks Journal. The government e-filing fee for a notice of opposition or corresponding counterstatement is currently ₹2,700 for each class concerned. An opposition proceeding is separate from an examination objection. An examination objection is raised by the Trade Marks Registry. An opposition is raised by a third party after publication. What Happens If a Trademark is Opposed? When an opposition is filed, the applicant has to defend the application through the statutory opposition procedure. Under the Rules, the applicant’s counterstatement in Form TM-O must generally be filed within two months from receipt of the notice of opposition. Failure to file it within the prescribed period may result in the application being treated as abandoned. Thereafter, opposition proceedings may involve evidence from the opponent, evidence from the applicant, evidence in reply and a hearing. The Rules prescribe specific deadlines for these evidence stages. For example, the opponent generally has two months after service of the counterstatement to submit evidence or indicate reliance on the opposition, after which the applicant gets its corresponding evidence period. Trademark opposition therefore requires careful deadline management. Step 14: Trademark Registration Certificate Where the opposition period expires without an opposition, or where an opposition has been finally decided in favour of the applicant, the mark may proceed to registration. Section 23 provides that when the conditions for registration are fulfilled, the Registrar registers the trademark, and the registration takes effect from the date on which the application was made, subject to the provisions of the Act. A registration certificate is thereafter issued electronically. The proprietor may then use the ® symbol in connection with the registered mark for the protected goods or services. How Long is a Trademark Registration Valid in India? A trademark registration is valid for 10 years and can be renewed repeatedly for further periods of 10 years. Section 25 of the Trade Marks Act provides for the 10-year registration term and subsequent renewals. Under Rule 57, an application for renewal may be made in Form TM-R and may be submitted not more than one year before expiry of the registration. The current government fee for regular electronic renewal is ₹9,000 per class, while the physical filing fee is ₹10,000 per class. Additional surcharge/restoration fees may apply where renewal is delayed. How Long Does Trademark Registration Take in India? There is no single guaranteed timeline for an ordinary trademark application. The actual duration depends on several factors, including examination, objections, hearings, publication and whether a third party files an opposition. An uncomplicated application that receives no objection or opposition will generally move faster than one involving Section 9 or Section 11 objections, hearings or opposition proceedings. The Rules also provide an expedited processing mechanism through Form TM-M. Under Rule 34, an application accepted for expedited processing is to be examined expeditiously and ordinarily within three months from the request, with subsequent stages also being dealt with expeditiously subject to applicable guidelines. Applicants should therefore avoid treating unofficial estimated timelines as guaranteed registration periods. Important Trademark Application Statuses During processing, the online record may show different statuses reflecting the stage of the application. For example, the application may be under formality review, sent for examination, objected, accepted and advertised, opposed or registered. The precise action required should always be determined from the official application record, examination report, hearing notice or other Registry communication rather than from the short status description alone. Common Mistakes During Trademark Registration Many difficulties can be avoided through careful planning before filing. Businesses commonly run into problems when they choose highly descriptive brand names, conduct only an exact-word search, select an incorrect class, provide an overly broad or inaccurate specification of goods and services, claim an unsupported prior-use date, file in the wrong proprietor’s name, ignore an Examination Report, miss an opposition deadline or assume that incorporation of a company automatically gives trademark rights over its name. Trademark registration and company-name approval are separate legal processes. Similarly, owning a domain name or social media username does not by itself amount to trademark registration. Word Mark vs Logo Trademark: Which Should You Register? This depends on the nature of the brand. Where the wording is the principal source identifier, businesses often consider protecting the word mark because the commercial value may lie primarily in the name. Where a distinctive logo, symbol or stylised design is also important, a separate device mark application may provide additional protection for that visual identity. For established brands, filing separate applications for strategically important word and logo elements may create a stronger portfolio than relying only on one composite application. The appropriate strategy should be decided after considering the mark, classes, commercial use and existing trademark landscape. Can a Trademark Be Registered in Multiple Classes? Yes. Rule 23 permits an application to cover one trademark in multiple classes of goods or services. However, the prescribed class fee applies separately for each class. A business should not automatically file in every class. The classes should correspond with the goods or services for which the trademark is genuinely used or intended to be used. Trademark Registration for Startups and Small Enterprises Trademark registration is particularly relevant for startups because brand value is often created long before substantial physical assets are accumulated. Eligible individuals, startups and small enterprises also receive a reduced government filing fee. For electronic TM-A filings, the current official fee is ₹4,500 per mark per class for an individual, startup or small enterprise, compared with ₹9,000 for applicants falling into the general category. Applicants claiming the concessional category should maintain the appropriate supporting documentation. Trademark Registration for Foreign Applicants Foreign persons and businesses may apply for trademark registration in India. Depending on the applicant’s international portfolio and circumstances, protection may be sought through a national Indian application or through the Madrid Protocol system where applicable. The appropriate route depends on existing applications or registrations, target countries and the applicant’s wider international brand-protection strategy. Benefits of Professional Trademark Assistance Trademark filing appears straightforward at first because the application can be submitted online. However, significant legal issues often arise before and after filing. Professional assistance can be valuable in conducting similarity searches, selecting classes, drafting specifications, evaluating prior-use claims, preparing affidavits, responding to objections, attending hearings, monitoring publication, handling opposition proceedings and managing renewal deadlines. A carefully prepared application can reduce avoidable procedural difficulties later. Conclusion Trademark registration is a crucial step for businesses that want to protect their brand identity and build long-term commercial value in India. The process involves more than simply filing Form TM-A. Applicants should conduct a proper trademark search, select the correct class, identify the rightful proprietor, provide accurate usage details and carefully respond to any objections raised by the Trade Marks Registry. After filing, the application may go through examination, objection, hearing, publication in the Trade Marks Journal and, where applicable, opposition proceedings before final registration. Once registered, a trademark is generally valid for 10 years and can be renewed for further periods. Frequently Asked Questions Q1. Is trademark registration compulsory in India? Ans. Trademark registration is not mandatory simply for operating every business. However, registration provides statutory protection and can significantly strengthen the proprietor’s ability to protect the brand. Q2. Can I apply for a trademark before starting my business? Ans. Yes. An application can be filed on a proposed-to-be-used basis even if commercial use of the trademark has not yet begun. Q3. What is Form TM-A? Ans. Form TM-A is the prescribed form used for filing a new trademark registration application under the Trade Marks Rules, 2017. Q4. How much does trademark registration cost? Ans. For electronic filing, the official fee is currently ₹4,500 per mark per class for an individual, startup or small enterprise and ₹9,000 per mark per class for other applicants. Professional charges are separate. Q5. Can I use ™ after filing a trademark application? Ans. The ™ symbol is commonly used to indicate that a business claims a particular sign as its trademark. It should not be confused with the ® symbol, which signifies registration. Q6. When can I use the ® symbol? Ans. The ® symbol should be used once the trademark has actually been registered. Merely filing an application does not amount to registration. Q7. What happens if my trademark is objected to? Ans. The applicant can respond to the Examination Report with legal submissions and supporting documents. Under Rule 33, the response generally needs to be filed within one month from receipt of the Examination Report. Q8. What is the difference between trademark objection and opposition? Ans. An objection is generally raised by the Trade Marks Registry during examination. An opposition is filed by a third party after the mark is advertised in the Trade Marks Journal. Q9. How long is a registered trademark valid? Ans. A trademark registration is valid for 10 years and can be renewed repeatedly for further 10-year periods. Q10. Can someone oppose my trademark even after the Registry accepts it? Ans. Yes. Acceptance by the Registry is followed by publication in the Trade Marks Journal, after which third parties have the statutory opportunity to oppose the registration. Under the current Rules, the opposition period is four months from publication or re-publication. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under trademark Author Info Name: Compliance Calendar LLP Qualification: Graduate Company: Compliance Calendar LLP Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 72 View full profile → More from Compliance Calendar LLP LLP to Private Limited Company Conversion: Process, Eligibility & Tax Implications September 19, 2026 LLP Annual Compliance: Form 8 and Form 11 Filing Requirements September 19, 2026 Related Party Transactions Under Companies Act: Approvals, Disclosure & Compliance September 19, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Murder Conviction Set Aside by SC Over Unreliable Eyewitnesses & Incomplete Evidence September 21, 2026 Predicate-Offence Acquittal Quashes PMLA Complaint: Madras HC September 21, 2026 Section 10A Bars CIRP as Default Dates Fell in Protected Period: NCLAT September 21, 2026 Co-operative Bank Arbitration Valid Without Managing Committee Resolution: Kerala HC September 21, 2026 Completed SARFAESI Sale Cannot Be Undone Through Fresh OTS: Delhi High Court September 21, 2026 Delhi HC Rejects Anticipatory Bail Over Alleged Fund Diversion & Forged Work Order September 21, 2026