Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13346 Case Name Anita Packaging Vs Assistant Commissioner (ST) (Telangana High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Telangana High Court Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Anita Packaging Vs Assistant Commissioner (ST) (Telangana High Court) Telangana High Court Allows GST Appeal Where Tax Consultant Failed to Inform Taxpayer of Section 73 Order Summary: The Telangana High Court permitted M/s. Anita Packaging to pursue a statutory appeal against a GST order passed under Section 73 of the Telangana GST Act, after the petitioner stated that its erstwhile tax consultant had failed to inform it about the impugned order. The Court granted two weeks to file the appeal along with the statutory pre-deposit and an application for condonation of delay. Background of the Case M/s. Anita Packaging, represented by its proprietor Mr. Divij Agarwal, approached the Telangana High Court challenging an Order-in-Original along with the proceedings in FORM GST DRC-07 bearing Reference No. ZD361223033724M dated 18.12.2023. The petitioner also challenged the Show Cause Notice along with FORM GST DRC-01 dated 14.06.2022, issued under Section 73 of the Act for the tax period 2017–18. The writ petition sought to challenge the proceedings on the grounds, inter alia, that the notices and orders violated the principles of natural justice and were unsustainable on merits. Petitioner’s Explanation The petitioner submitted that its erstwhile tax consultant had failed to inform it about the impugned order. According to the petitioner, it became aware of the order only after engaging a new tax consultant. After arguments before the High Court, the petitioner sought liberty to prefer a statutory appeal against the impugned order. The petitioner further submitted that some delay might have occurred in approaching the appellate authority and requested that the appellate authority be directed to consider the delay sympathetically. Department’s Stand The Special Government Pleader appearing for State Tax submitted that the petitioner was at liberty to prefer an appeal against the impugned order and raise all grounds available in law and on facts before the appellate authority. High Court’s Observations After hearing the parties, the High Court specifically stated that, since the petitioner sought liberty to pursue the statutory appellate remedy, the Court did not wish to comment on the merits of the contentions raised by either side. Thus, the High Court did not adjudicate the petitioner’s allegations concerning violation of natural justice or the merits of the underlying GST demand. Directions of the Telangana High Court The Court granted liberty to the petitioner to: 1. Prefer an appeal within two weeks; 2. Make the statutory pre-deposit; 3. File an application for condonation of delay; and 4. Raise all available grounds of law and fact in the memorandum of appeal. The appellate authority was directed to consider the question of delay taking into account the facts and circumstances of the case. If the appellate authority is satisfied on the issue of delay, it shall proceed to decide the appeal on merits in accordance with law. Significance of the Order The order provides the petitioner an opportunity to pursue the statutory appellate remedy after claiming that it became aware of the GST order only upon engaging a new tax consultant. Importantly, the High Court did not itself condone the delay. The question of delay has been left to the appellate authority, which must first consider the explanation and, if satisfied, proceed to examine the appeal on merits. The Court also did not express any opinion on the petitioner’s substantive challenges to the Section 73 proceedings, including the allegations relating to natural justice. Those grounds remain available to the petitioner before the appellate authority. Conclusion The Telangana High Court disposed of the writ petition by granting M/s. Anita Packaging two weeks to invoke the statutory appellate remedy against the Section 73 order. The case illustrates the procedural opportunity given by the High Court where a taxpayer approaches the Court after becoming aware of an adverse GST order and seeks to pursue the statutory appeal along with an application explaining the delay. The ultimate decision on condonation of delay and the merits of the appeal has been left to the appellate authority. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF TELANGANA HIGH COURT Heard Ms. Akruti Goyal, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner, Mr. Swaroop Oorilla, learned Special Government Pleader appearing for State Tax and Mr. Dominic Fernandes, learned Senior Standing Counsel appearing for Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC). 2. The Writ Petition has been preferred with the following prayer: “…pleased to issue a Writ of Mandamus or any other appropriate writ or order or direction set aside the Order in Original along with proceedings in Form GST DRC07 vide Ref.No.ZD361223033724M dated 18.12.2023 and Show Cause Notice along with Form DRC-01 dated 14.06.2022 issued by the 1st Respondent under Section 73 of the Act for the tax period 2017-18 as being nullity on the ground that the impugned notices and orders are issued in violation of principles of natural justice and also unsustainable on merits and pass such other order orders as the Hon’ble Court may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case.” 3. The petitioner has approached this Court alleging that its erstwhile tax consultant failed to inform about the impugned order and it has come to know about the same only when a new tax consultant was engaged. 4. However, after some arguments, learned counsel for the petitioner seeks liberty to the petitioner to prefer an appeal against the impugned order. She submits that some delay might have been occurred in approaching the appellate authority and therefore, the appellate authority may be directed to consider the appeal sympathetically. 5. Learned Special Government Pleader for State Tax submits that the petitioner is at liberty to prefer an appeal against the impugned order taking all the grounds as are available to it in law and on facts before the appellate authority in respect of the subject tax period. 6. However, upon hearing the learned counsel for the parties, since the petitioner seeks liberty to prefer an appeal, we do not wish to comment on the merits of the contentions raised by the parties. 7. Therefore, we grant liberty to the petitioner to prefer an appeal within a period of two weeks with statutory pre-deposit and a delay condonation application. The petitioner may take all such grounds of law and facts in the memo of appeal as are available to it. Needless to say, the appellate authority would consider the question of delay taking into account the aforesaid facts and circumstances and if it is satisfied on the point of delay, proceed to decide the appeal on merits in accordance with law. 8. The writ petition is accordingly disposed of with the aforesaid liberty. There shall be no order as to costs. Miscellaneous applications pending, if any, shall stand closed. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgments Author Info Name: ADV AKRUTI GOYAL (CA) Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: ADV AKRUTI GOYAL, ADVOCATE AND LEGAL CONSULTANT Location: Hyderabad, Telangana Articles Published: 244 View full profile → More from ADV AKRUTI GOYAL (CA) Telangana HC Allows Appeal as Consultant Failed to Inform Taxpayer of GST Order September 19, 2026 Telangana HC Permits Revocation Application for Time-Barred GST Registration Cancellation September 19, 2026 Telangana HC Permits GST Appeal Against Section 74 Common Adjudication Order September 19, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Bhandari Scrap & Safecon: 2 GST Judgments by SC & Genuine Buyer’s Dilemma September 19, 2026 CGST Delhi South Arrests Proprietor in Rs. 25.22 Crore Fake ITC Case September 19, 2026 Delhi HC Upholds CGST Search of Advocate’s Premises with Privilege Safeguards September 19, 2026 Telangana HC Permits GST Appeal Against Section 74 Common Adjudication Order September 19, 2026 Telangana High Court Permits Withdrawal of GST Writ with Liberty to Refile September 19, 2026 Telangana HC Allows GST Appeal Against Section 73 Order with Delay Application September 19, 2026