Summary: GST analytics can help the Department compare returns, identify mismatches and detect suspicious transactions, but an analytical alert cannot by itself establish tax liability, fraud or ineligible input tax credit. Small and medium taxpayers are increasingly facing DRC-01A or audit communications containing substantial proposed liabilities generated from e-way bills, GSTR-1, GSTR-3B, GSTR-2B, supplier cancellation data and other analytical inputs, sometimes with only a few days to reconcile years of transactions. This creates particular difficulty where ITC is questioned because a supplier’s registration was cancelled, since meaningful verification requires supplier-wise and invoice-wise particulars, cancellation details and examination of evidence such as invoices, transport records, stock records and banking transactions. The approaching limitation period for FY 2022-23 has also resulted in increased proceedings, but limitation pressure cannot justify mechanical or inadequately supported demands. DRC-01A is a pre-notice intimation and not a final recovery order or substitute for proper adjudication. Natural justice requires disclosure of allegations and relied-upon material, reasonable opportunity to respond, consideration of evidence, meaningful personal hearing and a reasoned order. Genuine taxpayers should therefore respond systematically to analytics-based communications, seek complete reconciliation data, preserve supporting records and contest unsupported allegations while continuing to cooperate with lawful verification. When GST Analytics Becomes a Tool of Coercion: A Call for Fairness to Bona Fide Taxpayers A tax administration is entitled to use technology. It is entitled to compare returns, detect mismatches, identify risk, and seek explanations. But technology cannot be allowed to replace law, evidence, fairness, or human judgment. A recent type of departmental proceeding now being experienced by many small and medium taxpayers raises a serious concern. A taxpayer receives a portal-based DRC-01A or audit communication carrying a liability running into lakhs or crores. The demand is generated from “GST analytical portal” data. The notice may refer to e-way bills, GSTR-1, GSTR-3B, GSTR-2B, supplier cancellation data, or alleged blocked credit. Yet the taxpayer is often given only a few days to explain years of transactions, trace hundreds of invoices, obtain documents from suppliers, reconcile stock, produce bank records, and answer a massive proposed liability. This is not a fair way to administer GST. The question is not whether the Department should detect evasion. Of course it should. The question is whether a genuine taxpayer can be treated as a defaulter merely because an automated data tool has produced a mismatch, a supplier’s registration has later been cancelled, or a transaction does not fit neatly into an analytical template. A computer-generated risk signal may justify verification. It cannot become a pre-decided tax demand. Table of Contents▸ The troubling reality Analytics is not adjudication Why FY 2022-23 notices are suddenly increasing The impossible demand on taxpayers DRC-01A is not a recovery order Natural justice cannot be an empty phrase The harsh appellate reality What the Department should do A message for bona fide taxpayers Conclusion Show all 10 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); The troubling reality Take a notice for FY 2022-23 issued in September 2026. The taxpayer may be told that adjudication proceedings have been initiated pursuant to an assignment issued by a superior officer, “based on the GST analytical portal.” The notice may combine several allegations: Differential tax based on e-way bill data and GSTR-1 comparison. Input tax credit allegedly relating to suppliers whose registration was cancelled. Blocked-credit allegations under section 17(5). Interest for delayed reporting of invoices. A huge consolidated figure of tax and interest. In one such matter, the tax proposed was approximately ₹7.30 crore and the interest approximately ₹4.60 crore, taking the total proposed outgo to nearly ₹11.90 crore. The bulk of the proposed tax—about ₹7.25 crore—was attributed to ITC said to relate to suppliers whose registrations were cancelled before the invoice date. Yet a figure of this magnitude must necessarily be supported by supplier-wise, invoice-wise, tax-period-wise and document-wise particulars. A bare allegation from the analytical portal is not enough. When a taxpayer is presented with such a demand, the immediate commercial damage is immense. Banks become nervous. Suppliers ask questions. Buyers hesitate. Working capital is affected. The taxpayer’s reputation suffers even before any independent adjudication has taken place. For a small trader, scrap dealer, manufacturer, transporter, works contractor, retailer, or service provider, a notice of several crores is not merely a tax communication. It can threaten the survival of the business. Analytics is not adjudication The GST system has accumulated a vast volume of data: GSTR-1, GSTR-3B, GSTR-9, GSTR-9C, e-way bills, e-invoices, customs data, registration data, bank information, supplier return compliance, and data from other departments. Proper use of this data can improve compliance and identify suspicious patterns. But there is an essential legal distinction: Data mismatch ≠ Proved tax liability Analytical alert ≠ Evidence of fraud Supplier cancellation ≠ Automatic denial of ITC The GST analytical portal may identify a transaction for verification. That is its proper role. But before asking a taxpayer to pay crores of rupees, the officer must independently apply mind to the taxpayer’s own records and the specific legal requirements. An algorithm cannot verify whether goods were actually received. It cannot examine whether payment was made through banking channels. It cannot always distinguish a cancelled e-way bill from a completed supply, a credit note from a taxable outward supply, a return of goods from a fresh supply, a timing difference from tax evasion, or a retrospective cancellation of registration from an actual sham transaction. An officer must do that work. When a notice merely reproduces analytics without invoice-wise application of mind, it shifts the entire burden of departmental investigation onto the taxpayer. The taxpayer is then expected to prove innocence against a vague, large and intimidating figure. That approach is contrary to fair tax administration. Why FY 2022-23 notices are suddenly increasing The sharp increase in notices for FY 2022-23 is not accidental. The statutory time limit under the earlier section 73 framework is approaching. For non-fraud cases relating to FY 2022-23, the SCN is generally required to be issued by 30 September 2026, and the order is generally required to be passed by 31 December 2026. That is why taxpayers are now seeing a sudden rush of DRC-01A intimations, audit communications, and proposed demands. The Department is entitled to act within the statutory limitation period. But limitation pressure cannot justify mechanical proceedings. A statutory deadline is not a licence to issue bulk, vague, unverified, or impossible-to-answer demands. If the Department had several years of GST data, it is not fair to wait until the final weeks of limitation and then give a taxpayer five, seven, or ten days to explain transactions of an entire financial year. The taxpayer should not be punished for the Department’s late scrutiny. The right approach is simple: Start verification early. Provide transaction-wise details. Give sufficient time for reconciliation. Consider the taxpayer’s records. Conduct a personal hearing wherever necessary. Issue a reasoned notice only after proper application of mind. A notice issued in haste to save limitation, without adequate factual foundation, only creates avoidable litigation and destroys confidence in the GST system. The impossible demand on taxpayers A common allegation concerns ITC where a supplier’s registration is said to have been cancelled before the invoice date. This allegation requires careful verification. It cannot be decided by a broad spreadsheet or an aggregate figure. For each alleged invoice, the Department must at least disclose: Supplier name and GSTIN. Invoice number and invoice date. Taxable value and CGST, SGST and IGST amount. Effective date of cancellation of the supplier’s registration. Date on which the cancellation order was actually passed. Whether cancellation was prospective or retrospective. The cancellation order and reasons for cancellation. Whether the supplier’s invoice was reflected in GSTR-2A or GSTR-2B. The statutory condition under section 16 said to be breached. The evidence, if any, suggesting that goods were not received or that the transaction was not genuine. Without these details, the taxpayer cannot respond meaningfully. CBIC’s own scrutiny instruction treats such cases as matters requiring verification of whether ITC was availed on invoices issued after the effective date of cancellation of the supplier’s registration. It does not justify a blanket reversal based only on a database flag. A bona fide purchaser may have a tax invoice, e-way bill, transport document, weighment slip, goods-receipt record, stock register entry, bank payment proof, supplier ledger, and corresponding sales record. Where goods are bought and sold in the normal course of business, these documents cannot be ignored merely because the supplier’s registration is later cancelled or because the departmental system detects a risk indicator. Several courts have also stressed that ITC cannot be denied to a recipient solely because the supplier’s registration was later cancelled retrospectively, without examining the recipient’s evidence and the genuineness of the transaction. The question has to be examined on facts, invoice by invoice, and not decided mechanically against the recipient. DRC-01A is not a recovery order Taxpayers must also understand the legal nature of the document they receive. A DRC-01A is intended as a pre-notice intimation under section 73(5), intended to facilitate voluntary payment where liability is genuinely admitted. It is not a final demand order. It is not proof that the taxpayer has committed a violation. It is not a substitute for a proper show-cause notice. In the matter referred to above, the attachment itself describes the figures as prima facie and advises payment under section 73(5), while stating that a show-cause notice may be issued if payment is not made or a satisfactory reply is not furnished. Therefore, no taxpayer should make payment merely because a huge number appears in an analytical notice. Payment should be made only where there is a verified and admitted liability after proper reconciliation. A taxpayer who disagrees should file a reasoned written reply, request all relied-upon material, and ask for an opportunity to reconcile. Silence can be dangerous. But forced payment without verification can be even more damaging. Natural justice cannot be an empty phrase Natural justice is not a technical argument raised only in courts. It is the minimum standard of fairness expected from a public authority. In GST proceedings, natural justice means: The taxpayer must know the exact allegation. The taxpayer must receive the documents and data relied upon. The taxpayer must have reasonable time to respond. The taxpayer must be permitted to produce invoices, books, stock records, payment evidence and explanations. The officer must consider the reply with an open mind. Where an adverse decision is contemplated, a meaningful opportunity of personal hearing must be granted. The final order must contain reasons and deal with the taxpayer’s defence. A taxpayer cannot be asked to answer a liability of ₹5 crore, ₹10 crore or ₹50 crore based on a one-line allegation such as “supplier registration cancelled,” “e-way bill mismatch,” “ineligible ITC,” or “interest due.” That is not adjudication. That is a demand first and verification later. The constitutional expectation is not that every taxpayer will succeed in every case. The expectation is that every taxpayer will be heard fairly before being burdened with a demand. The harsh appellate reality The problem becomes more serious after an adverse order is passed. A taxpayer may have to file an appeal and meet the statutory pre-deposit requirement. Even where the percentage prescribed for appeal appears limited, a huge tax demand can make the pre-deposit unaffordable for a small or medium business. A demand of ₹10 crore, ₹25 crore or ₹100 crore may be based on a disputed ITC reversal or data mismatch. Yet the taxpayer may be compelled to arrange a substantial amount merely to obtain appellate consideration. In practice, this can make the right of appeal illusory. The effect is unequal. A large corporation may be able to deposit the amount, engage experts, pursue litigation and survive the working-capital strain. A small trader, proprietary concern, family business or local manufacturer may not. For them, an unverified demand can itself become the punishment. This is why the first stage—pre-notice verification and adjudication—must be handled with much greater care. Fairness at the beginning reduces hardship, appeals and writ petitions later. What the Department should do A taxpayer-friendly administration does not mean an administration that overlooks evasion. Genuine evasion must be investigated and dealt with firmly. But the following safeguards should become standard practice: Supply complete reconciliation data. Every allegation must be supported by invoice-wise, supplier-wise and tax-period-wise information. Separate analytics from adjudication. The GST analytical portal should generate a verification alert, not an automatic demand conclusion. Give realistic time. A taxpayer cannot reconcile an entire financial year, hundreds of invoices and several suppliers within a few days. Issue a focused notice. Avoid omnibus notices carrying broad allegations and consolidated figures without factual particulars. Verify actual receipt of goods. Examine invoices, e-way bills, transport records, weighment slips, inward registers, stock movement, bank payment and corresponding outward supplies. Do not penalise recipients automatically. A supplier’s later cancellation, non-filing, default or departmental action cannot automatically establish that the recipient’s purchase was fictitious. Avoid recovery-minded adjudication. The role of an adjudicating officer is not to maximise demand figures. It is to determine the legally correct liability. Grant personal hearing in substance. Hearing should be a genuine opportunity to explain the records, not a ritual completed after a conclusion has already been formed. Pass speaking orders. The order must discuss the reply, evidence, legal provisions and computation—not merely reproduce the show-cause notice. Recognise commercial consequences. A massive demand against a compliant taxpayer affects business reputation, cash flow, jobs, credit facilities and the local economy. A message for bona fide taxpayers Taxpayers should not panic on receipt of a massive DRC-01A or analytics-based communication. But they should act immediately and systematically. Download the notice, attachment, portal history and every annexure. Check whether the document is DRC-01A, DRC-01, DRC-07 or another form. Do not treat the proposed liability as admitted. Ask for invoice-wise and supplier-wise details. Build a reconciliation using purchase invoices, e-way bills, transport records, stock records, bank payments and return data. File a written reply within time or seek extension in writing. Raise objections to vague allegations and non-supply of relied-upon documents. Request a personal hearing. Preserve portal screenshots, acknowledgements and proof of submissions. Challenge any demand that is unsupported by facts, contrary to law, or passed without meaningful opportunity. The taxpayer must cooperate. But cooperation does not mean surrender. Conclusion GST was introduced with the promise of simplification, transparency, seamless credit and reduced cascading of taxes. It was not introduced to create fear among genuine taxpayers through unexplained analytical demands. Technology should make tax administration more accurate, not more oppressive. Data should assist officers in finding the truth, not replace the officer’s duty to examine evidence. An analytics-based discrepancy may begin an inquiry; it cannot end one. The Department must remember that every mismatch is not evasion, every cancelled supplier is not proof of a fake purchase, every delayed invoice is not deliberate default, and every large number generated by a portal is not a lawful tax demand. A bona fide taxpayer is not a source of easy collection. The strength of GST administration will not be measured by the number of crores proposed in DRC-01A notices. It will be measured by whether demands are fair, evidence-based, legally sustainable and capable of surviving judicial scrutiny. Natural justice is not an obstacle to revenue collection. It is the foundation of lawful revenue collection. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: S PRASAD Qualification: Graduate Company: S.PRASAD AND CO Location: Mysuru, Karnataka Articles Published: 160 View full profile → More from S PRASAD Sections 74 & 74A After SC decision in Tata Steel: Will Old GST Demands Be Withdrawn? August 30, 2026 SC Sets Aside Mechanical GST Section 74 Fraud Notices for Lack of Foundational Facts August 29, 2026 Compliance Audit Checklist and SOP for Tamil Nadu GST Adjudication Controls August 28, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST Portal Upload as Valid Service Under Section 169: SC to Examine September 21, 2026 Time of Supply under GST: When Does Tax Become Payable September 21, 2026 GST Council and Fiscal Federalism: Who Decides India’s GST Rates September 21, 2026 GST Investigation Response SOP: Why Every Organisation Needs One September 21, 2026 Delhi HC Declines Writ Interference in GST Parallel Proceedings Under Section 6(2)(b) September 21, 2026 GSTAT Remands GSTR-2A vs GSTR-3B ITC Dispute for Fresh Adjudication September 21, 2026