Summary: HDFC Nifty 50 Index Fund is an open-ended passive equity scheme tracking the NIFTY 50 Index (TRI). HDFC Mutual Fund’s September 2026 fund facts state that the scheme had AUM of ₹23,783.91 crore as of August 2026, minimum investment of ₹100, Regular Plan TER of 0.41% and Direct Plan TER of 0.26% as of August 2026. The scheme carries a Very High risk label and an exit load of 0.25% for redemption/switch-out within three days of allotment, with no exit load thereafter. Because it is an equity-oriented index fund, investors should separately consider current capital-gains taxation, tracking error, market volatility and the difference between Direct and Regular plans. This article explains the scheme for education and does not recommend investment. Table of Contents▸ HDFC Nifty 50 Index Fund: Features, Costs, Taxation & Investor Risks What the Scheme Does Current Scheme Facts — September 2026 Direct Plan vs Regular Plan Tracking Error and Index-Fund Risk Indian Tax Treatment Practical Checks Before Investing FAQs Key Takeaways Show all 9 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); HDFC Nifty 50 Index Fund: Features, Costs, Taxation & Investor Risks What the Scheme Does The investment objective is to generate returns commensurate with the performance of the NIFTY 50 Index (TRI), subject to tracking errors. The scheme passively replicates the index rather than selecting stocks through an active stock-picking mandate. The NIFTY 50 represents 50 large and liquid companies across sectors. Passive replication reduces manager-selection risk but does not eliminate equity-market risk, concentration risk, tracking difference or tracking error. Current Scheme Facts — September 2026 Inception date: 17 July 2002. Benchmark: NIFTY 50 Index (TRI). Plans: Regular and Direct; Growth option under each. Minimum purchase/additional purchase: ₹100 and any amount thereafter. Exit load: 0.25% if redeemed/switched within 3 days; nil thereafter. TER as of August 2026: Regular 0.41% p.a.; Direct 0.26% p.a. Riskometer: Very High. Fund managers: Nandita Menezes and Arun Agarwal, as stated in the September 2026 fund facts. Direct Plan vs Regular Plan Both plans invest in the same underlying scheme portfolio, but the expense structure differs because a Regular Plan includes distribution-related expenses. A lower TER can reduce the drag on returns, but suitability depends on the investor’s circumstances and service/advice needs. The scheme’s own factsheet should be checked for the latest TER before any transaction. Tracking Error and Index-Fund Risk An index fund aims to track its benchmark but cannot be expected to match it exactly. Expenses, cash balances, rebalancing, transaction costs and implementation timing can create tracking difference. HDFC’s September 2026 facts report annualised tracking error of 0.02% for Regular and 0.03% for Direct based on daily rolling returns for the previous 12 months. Indian Tax Treatment For an equity-oriented mutual fund, redemption or switch can trigger capital-gains taxation under the law applicable on the transaction date. SIP instalments are generally treated as separate acquisitions for holding-period and cost purposes. A switch between plans or schemes can be a taxable transfer even though money is not withdrawn to the bank account. Investors should apply the current Income-tax Act, 2025 provisions and rates for Tax Year 2026-27 rather than relying on outdated section references from the repealed 1961 Act. Dividend/IDCW and non-resident withholding rules, where applicable, should likewise be checked under the current law and the investor’s residential status. Practical Checks Before Investing Confirm the latest SID, KIM, factsheet, TER and portfolio. Understand that a NIFTY 50 index fund remains an equity investment with Very High risk. Compare tracking difference and tracking error, not only TER. Treat each SIP instalment separately for record-keeping and tax purposes. Keep capital-gains statements and transaction records for return filing. FAQs 1. Is HDFC Nifty 50 Index Fund actively managed? No. It is a passive index fund designed to track the NIFTY 50 Index (TRI), subject to tracking errors. 2. What is the minimum investment? The September 2026 fund facts state ₹100 for purchase/additional purchase and any amount thereafter. 3. What is the exit load? 0.25% on units redeemed or switched out within three days from allotment; nil thereafter, subject to current scheme terms. 4. Is the Direct Plan portfolio different? The underlying scheme portfolio is the same; expense structures differ. 5. Is this a low-risk product because it tracks an index? No. The scheme is labelled Very High risk. 6. Are SIP redemptions tax-free? No automatic exemption applies merely because investment was through SIP. Each lot’s acquisition and redemption must be considered under current tax law. 7. Does past index performance guarantee future returns? No. Neither index nor scheme historical performance guarantees future returns. 8. Should TER be the only selection criterion? No. Tracking quality, risk, investment horizon, liquidity needs, tax consequences and suitability also matter. Key Takeaways Passive exposure to the NIFTY 50 does not remove equity-market risk. September 2026 facts show TER of 0.41% Regular and 0.26% Direct as of August 2026. Exit load is 0.25% within three days and nil thereafter under current terms. The scheme is labelled Very High risk. Verify current tax law and scheme documents before investing or redeeming. ***** Disclaimer: This article is solely for general informational and educational purposes and does not constitute investment, financial, legal, tax or accounting advice or a recommendation or solicitation to invest, redeem, switch or hold units. Mutual fund investments are subject to market risks; read all scheme-related documents carefully. NAV and returns can fluctuate and past performance does not guarantee future performance. Taxation and regulations may change and depend on individual facts. Readers should independently verify current scheme information and consult an appropriate SEBI-registered investment adviser and tax/legal/accounting professional before acting. TaxGuru, its owners, management, editors, authors, employees and associated persons accept no responsibility or liability for any loss, damage, consequence, decision or action arising directly or indirectly from reliance on or use of this article. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Mutual Fund Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,890 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi LIC New Tech-Term Plan 954: Features, Tax Benefits, GST & Claim Rules October 4, 2026 Ethereum (ETH): How It Works and India Tax, TDS & Compliance Rules October 4, 2026 Further Investigation Alone Does Not Justify Custodial Interrogation: Telangana HC October 4, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance DLF achieves complete sell-out of The Aureva with sales nearing ₹1985 crore October 4, 2026 Top 10 Gold (XAU/USD) Trading Apps in India (2026) October 4, 2026 Aurobindo Pharma secures USFDA approval for Perampanel tablets in multiple strengths October 3, 2026 Jaguar Land Rover reports robust sales growth in Q2 FY27 October 3, 2026 UTI Nifty Next 50 Index Fund: Features, TER, Taxation & Investor Risks October 3, 2026 How to Start Investing as a Beginner October 2, 2026