Film Production and PMLA: The Reporting Entity Gap India’s Anti-Money Laundering Framework Has Not Yet Closed Summary: India’s Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) imposes record-keeping, client identification, beneficial ownership and transaction-reporting obligations on specified “reporting entities”, including banking companies, financial institutions, intermediaries and persons carrying on designated businesses or professions. Over time, the Government has expanded this framework to sectors considered vulnerable to money-laundering risks, including real estate agents, dealers in precious metals and stones and virtual digital asset service providers. Film production companies, however, are not specifically included within this reporting architecture despite characteristics such as subjective project valuation, substantial cash expenditure, multiple financing layers, special purpose structures and opaque financing arrangements. Enforcement Directorate investigations, including the Jaffar Sadiq matter discussed in this article, illustrate how alleged proceeds of crime may enter film financing and production channels without generating proactive intelligence through the PMLA reporting system. The article argues that film production presents risks comparable to sectors already designated under PMLA and proposes three reforms: designation of production companies above a specified budget as reporting entities, mandatory KYC and source-of-funds verification for significant financiers, and appointment of a Principal Officer responsible for PMLA compliance. Such measures could enable suspicious financial activity to be identified at the financing stage rather than only after another criminal investigation exposes the underlying transactions. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Section 1: What PMLA Actually Requires Section 2: Why Film Production Meets the Risk Profile PMLA Already Uses Section 3: The Legal Gap, and Why It Cannot Be Justified Section 4: Three Reform Proposals Conclusion Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction In April 2024, the Enforcement Directorate searched fifteen premises across Chennai, Madurai, and Tiruchirapalli in connection with a Tamil Nadu drug trafficking case. What it found went well beyond narcotics. According to the ED’s own statement, cash from an illegal drug business was routed through specific financiers before being invested in movie production, hospitality, and real estate. More than ₹6 crore in direct cash payments and over ₹12 crore in cash routed and layered specifically for movie production were traced to entities linked to producer Jaffar Sadiq. By November 2024, the ED’s prosecution complaint had escalated that figure, finding more than ₹30 crore in cash deposits channelised into film production under the JSM Pictures banner, including substantial cash payments to actors, directors, and support staff. None of this was caught by the financial system’s own early-warning mechanism with no Suspicious Transaction Report flagged the flow of funds into film production. No reporting entity conducted KYC on the financiers involved. The case surfaced only because a narcotics investigation happened to lead there, not because India’s anti-money laundering framework was designed to notice it. This is a structural gap in hindsight. This piece sets out what the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (“PMLA”) currently requires, why film production companies meet every criterion the statute already uses to bring other sectors into its net, and what a targeted amendment closing that gap should look like. Section 1: What PMLA Actually Requires PMLA’s compliance rests on the concept of a “reporting entity.” Section 2(1)(wa) defines a reporting entity as a banking company, a financial institution, an intermediary, or a person carrying on a designated business or profession. Under Section 12, every reporting entity carries three core obligations: maintain a record of all transactions in a manner that allows individual transactions to be reconstructed, verify the identity of clients through Know Your Customer procedures, and furnish information, including Suspicious Transaction Reports to the Financial Intelligence Unit-India (FIU-IND) within prescribed timelines. The “designated business or profession” category is where PMLA has grown over time, and it grows by executive notification rather than by amending the Act itself. That category already covers real-estate agents, dealers in precious metals and stones, casinos, and persons who form or manage companies and trusts, and the government has continued expanding it by notification. Concretely: real estate agents with an annual turnover above ₹20 lakh were notified as reporting entities in December 2020, and dealers in precious metals and stones engaging in cash transactions of ₹10 lakh or more were notified the same month. Banks, NBFCs, insurers, chit fund companies, and SEBI-registered intermediaries are covered as a matter of course. Film production companies appear nowhere in this list as a producer raising and spending crores of rupees, much of it in cash, on a project with no standardized valuation method, sits entirely outside PMLA’s reporting architecture, unless and until a separate criminal investigation happens to walk through the industry’s door. Section 2: Why Film Production Meets the Risk Profile PMLA Already Uses What a film “costs” is whatever the production company declares it costs, a number that can be inflated to absorb illicit cash or deflated to conceal profit, with no external benchmark to test it against. That subjectivity is precisely the kind of valuation opacity money launderers look for, and it is a feature real estate and gems dealing, both already regulated, share in far more limited form. Junior artists, daily-wage crew, catering, location rentals, and countless other production costs are routinely settled in cash, often informally and without invoices. This is the textbook placement stage of money laundering, introducing illicit cash into the legitimate economy, as occurring openly, at scale, and entirely legally, because no obligation exists to track where the cash came from. A single film can involve a production company, one or more special purpose vehicles, co-production agreements, distribution advances against unreleased satellite and streaming rights, and financing routed through intermediary “financiers” rather than direct investors. Each layer adds a degree of opacity; money that enters at the financier stage is frequently unrecognisable by the time it exits as distribution revenue. The Jaffar Sadiq case is not an isolated data point. Actor-director Ameer’s production company was separately implicated in the same investigation, with the ED alleging that expenditure on multiple films could not be explained by his declared sources of income. Cases involving Sukesh Chandrashekhar’s alleged film financing and so-called “overnight” production houses in Karnataka’s film industry follow a similar pattern. The ED has now documented this route into the film sector repeatedly enough that it can no longer be treated as an aberration. Section 3: The Legal Gap, and Why It Cannot Be Justified PMLA does not, and cannot, regulate every business in India, it expands the “designated business or profession” category selectively, based on assessed money-laundering risk. Real estate agents were brought in because high-value, cash-capable transactions with subjective pricing create laundering opportunity. Film production shares every element of that risk profile, subjective valuation, cash intensity, layered ownership and in several documented cases, something worse. A framework that reasons from risk to designation, and applies that reasoning to real estate and gems dealers, has no principled basis for exempting an industry that meets the same test. The FIU-IND blind spot is because no one in a film’s production chain is obligated to file an STR, FIU-IND receives zero proactive intelligence from the film financing ecosystem. Every enforcement action to date, Jaffar Sadiq included has originated from a different trigger (a narcotics case, a separate financial crime probe) that happened to intersect with film financing. By the time that intersection is discovered, the money has typically already been integrated into the legitimate economy through distribution deals, box office receipts, or onward investment, making recovery significantly harder than it would be if a suspicious transaction had been flagged at the financing stage. FATF’s Recommendations require member jurisdictions to apply anti-money laundering controls to sectors it designates as Non-Financial Businesses and Professions, and separately require every jurisdiction to conduct a risk-based assessment of which sectors within its own economy warrant AML controls beyond that fixed list. FATF’s DNFBP category itself covers casinos, real estate agents, dealers in precious metals and stones, legal and accounting professionals, and trust and company service providers, it does not name entertainment or film production. But that is exactly the point: FATF’s framework is risk-based and expects jurisdictions to extend coverage domestically where a sector meets the underlying risk criteria, which is precisely how India brought real estate agents and virtual-asset dealers into PMLA’s net through domestic notification rather than because FATF named them individually. Film production meeting the same risk profile as sectors India has already chosen to designate is the argument, not a claim that FATF has already made this determination on India’s behalf. Section 4: Three Reform Proposals First, amend the PMLA Rules to designate film production companies with budgets exceeding ₹10 crore as reporting entities under Section 2(1)(sa)(vi), mirroring the threshold-based approach already used for real estate agents and gems dealers. A budget threshold protects small and regional productions from a compliance burden disproportionate to their risk, while bringing commercial-scale productions, where laundering risk and financing complexity are highest, within the reporting net. Second, mandate KYC on every financier contributing more than ₹25 lakh to a film production, including source-of-funds documentation, beneficial ownership identification, PAN verification, and FEMA compliance checks where foreign investment is involved. This targets the financier layer directly, which is where the Jaffar Sadiq case shows illicit cash actually entered the system. Third, require every designated production company to appoint a Principal Officer responsible for PMLA compliance, with named personal and professional liability for failures, the same structure already required of banks and NBFCs under Section 12. Without an accountable individual, record-keeping and reporting obligations tend to become nominal. Conclusion The Enforcement Directorate found the trail of drug money running through Tamil film production only because a narcotics investigation happened to lead investigators there. PMLA’s reporting architecture, if it covered film production the way it covers real estate and precious metals, should have generated that intelligence on its own, through a Suspicious Transaction Report filed well before any narcotics case existed. It did not, because no one in the production chain was under any legal obligation to file one. Until film production companies are brought within PMLA’s reporting entity framework, every future investigation into laundering through the film industry will depend on the same accident that exposed this one, a separate criminal probe leading investigators through a door the PMLA should have opened years ago. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Prevention of Money Laundering Act Author Info Name: Yashika Singh Qualification: Student - Others Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Trademark Objection Reply: Common Grounds, Procedure, Hearing and Outcomes September 22, 2026 IRDAI Repeals Dividend Repatriation Guidelines for Foreign-Owned Insurance Intermediaries September 22, 2026 Bank Cannot Recover Husband’s Loan from Wife’s Fixed Deposit: Allahabad HC September 22, 2026 False Stock Declarations Justify Complete Insurance Claim Repudiation: SC September 22, 2026 Re-Arrest After Unconstitutional Arrest Requires Prior Judicial Approval: SC September 22, 2026 Arrest of Accused Becomes Illegal If Grounds of Arrest Not Furnished In Writing: SC September 22, 2026