Summary: Customs valuation in India ordinarily begins with transaction value under Section 14(1) of the Customs Act, 1962, broadly representing the price actually paid or payable for imported goods subject to statutory conditions and prescribed adjustments. However, Section 14(2) creates a distinct overriding mechanism under which CBIC may notify tariff values for specified classes of imported or exported goods after considering the trend of values of such or like goods. Once an applicable tariff value is validly notified, customs duty is chargeable with reference to that notified value rather than merely the invoice value. This mechanism is particularly relevant for commodities such as gold, silver, edible oils, brass scrap and areca nuts, whose values may fluctuate substantially. Section 15 is also important because it determines the relevant statutory date for the applicable rate of duty and tariff valuation; for goods entered for home consumption, this is generally linked to presentation of the Bill of Entry. Tariff valuation can additionally affect computation of IGST on imports. The Supreme Court’s decision in Century Metal Recycling Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India explains the distinction between ordinary transaction-value assessment and tariff valuation and confirms that customs authorities cannot invent a tariff value where none has been notified. Where Section 14(1) applies, rejection of declared transaction value must instead comply with the Customs Valuation Rules, 2007. Importers should therefore verify classification, applicable tariff-value notifications, effective dates, valuation units and the statutory date relevant to each import transaction. Table of Contents▸ Part I – Introduction Understanding the Issue Part II – Legal Framework 1. Section 12 of the Customs Act, 1962 – The Charging Provision 2. Section 14(1) – The General Rule of Transaction Value 3. Section 14(2) – The Concept of Tariff Value 4. Why Does the Law Use Tariff Values? 5. Section 15 – Which Tariff Value Applies? 6. Relationship with the Customs Valuation Rules, 2007 Part III – Contemporary and Practical Analysis 7. How Tariff Value Works in Practice 8. Tariff Value and IGST on Imports 9. Recent Relevance of Tariff Values 10. Judicial Perspective: Century Metal Recycling Case 11. Transaction Value Cannot Be Rejected Arbitrarily 12. The Vaibhav International Decision – A Contemporary Illustration Part IV – Critical Discussion 13. Why Tariff Values Matter to Importers 14. Challenges Associated with the Tariff-Value System 15. Practical Example: Why the Date Matters 16. Suggestions for Better Compliance Part V – Conclusion and Suggestions Key Takeaways Cases Discussed Show all 24 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Part I – Introduction Understanding the Issue When goods are imported into India, one of the first legal questions that arises is: on what value should customs duty be calculated? At first glance, the answer may appear simple—the value mentioned in the invoice should determine the amount of customs duty. However, customs valuation law is more nuanced. The Customs Act, 1962 generally follows the principle of transaction value, under which the value of imported goods is ordinarily the price actually paid or payable for those goods, subject to the conditions and adjustments prescribed by law. This principle is important because customs duty is generally calculated on the assessable value of imported goods. However, the law also recognises that there may be situations where a standardised valuation mechanism is required for particular categories of goods. This is where the concept of tariff value becomes important. Section 14(2) of the Customs Act, 1962 empowers the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), where it considers it necessary or expedient, to notify tariff values for specified classes of imported or exported goods. The provision also makes it clear that where such tariff values are fixed, the customs duty is chargeable with reference to the notified tariff value. The significance of this provision becomes particularly visible in the case of commodities whose prices can change considerably over a short period. Gold, silver, edible oils, brass scrap and areca nuts are examples of goods for which tariff values have been notified from time to time. The issue is therefore not simply about determining the market price of an imported product. It is about understanding which valuation mechanism the law requires to be applied to a particular import transaction. For an importer, this distinction can have a direct financial consequence. If the transaction value and notified tariff value are different, the applicable customs duty may be calculated with reference to the notified tariff value where Section 14(2) applies. Therefore, understanding tariff value is essential not only from a theoretical perspective but also from the standpoint of day-to-day customs compliance. Part II – Legal Framework 1. Section 12 of the Customs Act, 1962 – The Charging Provision The starting point for understanding customs taxation is Section 12 of the Customs Act, 1962. It provides for the levy of customs duties on goods imported into or exported from India at the rates specified under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 or any other applicable law. In simple terms, Section 12 establishes the legal authority for imposing customs duty. However, merely knowing the applicable rate is not sufficient where the duty is calculated on an ad valorem basis. The customs authorities must also determine the value on which that rate is to be applied. This is why Section 14 becomes central to customs valuation. 2. Section 14(1) – The General Rule of Transaction Value Section 14(1) establishes the general principle that the value of imported goods is their transaction value. Broadly, this refers to the price actually paid or payable for the goods when they are sold for export to India, provided the statutory conditions are satisfied. The provision also recognises that the value may include certain additional costs and services connected with the importation, such as specified commissions, brokerage, engineering and design work, royalties and licence fees, transportation, insurance, loading, unloading and handling charges, subject to the applicable rules. Therefore, the invoice price is not necessarily the final assessable value in every case. The Customs Act and the Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Imported Goods) Rules, 2007 determine how the value is to be established. The basic principle can nevertheless be stated simply: Ordinarily, customs valuation begins with the actual transaction between the buyer and seller. This principle is important because customs valuation should not ordinarily be based on an arbitrary figure determined by the authorities. 3. Section 14(2) – The Concept of Tariff Value Section 14(2) introduces a separate mechanism. It begins with the words “Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1)”, which gives the provision an overriding effect where its conditions are satisfied. The CBIC may, through notification in the Official Gazette, fix tariff values for any class of imported or exported goods, taking into consideration the trend of value of such or like goods. Once a tariff value is notified for the relevant goods, customs duty is chargeable with reference to that value. This creates an important distinction: Transaction Value Tariff Value Based primarily on the price actually paid or payable Fixed by notification under Section 14(2) Applies as the ordinary valuation principle Applies where the relevant goods are covered by a tariff-value notification Particular to the transaction Standardised for the specified class of goods Governed by Section 14(1) and valuation rules Governed specifically by Section 14(2) Thus, tariff value should not be understood simply as another method of estimating the market price. It is a statutory valuation mechanism created by Section 14(2). 4. Why Does the Law Use Tariff Values? The need for tariff values becomes easier to understand when one considers the nature of certain internationally traded commodities. The prices of commodities such as gold, silver and edible oils can fluctuate frequently due to international market conditions, exchange-rate movements and changes in demand and supply. In such circumstances, a notified valuation mechanism can provide greater uniformity in customs assessment. The tariff-value system may therefore serve several practical purposes: facilitating more consistent assessment of specified commodities; reducing disputes arising solely from differences in declared values; assisting customs authorities in administering large-volume imports; providing a standard benchmark for the calculation of customs duty; and enabling the Government to revise the valuation benchmark when market trends change. However, tariff value does not apply automatically to every imported product. There must be a notification under Section 14(2) covering the relevant class of goods. 5. Section 15 – Which Tariff Value Applies? One of the most practically important provisions in this area is Section 15 of the Customs Act, 1962. The provision determines the relevant date for the rate of duty and tariff valuation. In the case of goods entered for home consumption under Section 46, the relevant rate and tariff valuation are generally those in force on the date on which the Bill of Entry is presented. Different rules apply to warehoused goods and other specified situations. This means that the tariff value applicable to an import transaction cannot be determined simply by looking at the date on which the importer placed the order or entered into the purchase agreement. For example, imagine that an importer enters into a contract to purchase a commodity in September, but the Bill of Entry is presented in October after CBIC has revised the tariff value. The applicable tariff valuation must be examined with reference to the statutory date under Section 15. The Karnataka High Court’s 2026 decision in M/s Vaibhav International v. Commissioner of Customs also discussed the importance of the date of import and Section 15 in determining the applicable rate and tariff valuation. This makes continuous monitoring of customs notifications particularly important for businesses engaged in regular imports. 6. Relationship with the Customs Valuation Rules, 2007 The Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Imported Goods) Rules, 2007 provide the framework for determining transaction value and for dealing with circumstances in which the declared value cannot be accepted. Rule 3 generally gives primacy to transaction value, subject to the rules. Rule 10 deals with specified additions to the price actually paid or payable, while Rule 12 provides a procedure where the proper officer has reasonable grounds to doubt the truth or accuracy of the declared value. This distinction becomes particularly important when comparing ordinary valuation with tariff valuation. Where there is no applicable tariff-value notification, the transaction-value mechanism and the Customs Valuation Rules become central to determining the assessable value. Where a valid tariff value has been notified under Section 14(2) for the relevant goods, however, the statutory tariff value governs the duty assessment. The Supreme Court clearly explained this distinction in Century Metal Recycling Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India. Part III – Contemporary and Practical Analysis 7. How Tariff Value Works in Practice The practical operation of tariff value can be understood through a simple example. Suppose an importer brings into India a quantity of gold covered by a tariff-value notification. Assume, purely for illustration, that: Quantity imported: 1,000 grams Invoice price: US$120,000 Notified tariff value: US$1,339 per 10 grams Since 1,000 grams contain 100 units of 10 grams: 100 × US$1,339 = US$133,900 If the goods are covered by the applicable tariff-value notification, the customs duty is calculated with reference to the notified tariff value, rather than simply adopting the invoice price of US$120,000. The example demonstrates why tariff value is more than a theoretical concept. A difference between the transaction price and the notified tariff value can affect the taxable base and consequently the amount of customs duty payable. The actual tax calculation would, of course, require consideration of the applicable rate of duty, exemptions, exchange-rate provisions and other statutory requirements. 8. Tariff Value and IGST on Imports The effect of tariff valuation is not necessarily limited to Basic Customs Duty. The Customs Tariff Act, 1975 provides the mechanism for levy of IGST on imported goods. Section 3(8) specifically recognises that, for calculating IGST on an imported article, the value may be the value determined under Section 14(1) of the Customs Act or the tariff value fixed under Section 14(2), as the case may be, along with applicable customs duties and other specified amounts. This is an important practical point because an importer must understand the entire tax calculation rather than looking at Basic Customs Duty in isolation. In a situation where tariff value is applicable, the notified value can therefore influence the broader computation of taxes payable at the time of import. 9. Recent Relevance of Tariff Values The relevance of this mechanism can be seen from the continuing revision of tariff values for certain commodities. Tariff values are not necessarily permanent. They may be revised through notifications when the Government considers revision appropriate having regard to the statutory framework and prevailing value trends. This is particularly relevant for commodities whose international prices fluctuate frequently. For businesses, this means that customs compliance cannot be treated as a one-time exercise. An importer who regularly deals in goods covered by tariff-value notifications needs to monitor: new CBIC notifications; amendments to existing notifications; effective dates; commodity descriptions; applicable units of valuation; tariff classification; and changes in customs duty rates. A failure to check the latest applicable notification can result in incorrect self-assessment and subsequent customs disputes. 10. Judicial Perspective: Century Metal Recycling Case A significant decision on customs valuation is Century Metal Recycling Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India, decided by the Supreme Court on 17 May 2019. The case concerned the valuation of imported aluminium scrap. The importer had challenged the manner in which customs authorities had sought to reassess the declared transaction value. The Supreme Court examined Section 14 of the Customs Act along with Rules 3 and 12 of the Customs Valuation Rules, 2007. It explained that transaction value ordinarily forms the basis of valuation, but Section 14(2) operates differently where the Board has actually notified tariff values for a particular class of goods. The Court specifically explained that when tariff value has been fixed under Section 14(2), customs duty is payable with reference to that notified tariff value. At the same time, the Court made it clear that where no tariff value has been notified for the relevant goods, authorities cannot simply invent a tariff value and use it in place of the statutory valuation process. This distinction is extremely important. A tariff value must have a legal basis under Section 14(2). A mere departmental suspicion that an importer has declared a low price does not itself create a tariff value. 11. Transaction Value Cannot Be Rejected Arbitrarily Another important aspect emerging from Century Metal Recycling is the protection given to the transaction-value principle. Where Section 14(1) applies, the Customs Valuation Rules provide a procedure for questioning the declared value. Rule 12 permits the proper officer to seek further information where there is reasonable doubt regarding the truth or accuracy of the declared value. The importer must also be informed of the grounds for such doubt when requested and given a reasonable opportunity before a final decision is taken. The Supreme Court emphasised that valuation cannot be altered merely on the basis of suspicion or an unsupported assumption. There must be reasonable grounds and relevant material for rejecting the declared value. This principle is significant because it maintains a balance between two interests: Revenue protection on one hand, and fair and legally regulated assessment on the other. 12. The Vaibhav International Decision – A Contemporary Illustration The 2026 decision of the Karnataka High Court in M/s Vaibhav International v. Commissioner of Customs provides a useful contemporary illustration of the interaction between classification and valuation. The dispute involved imported areca nuts and questions concerning their classification and valuation. The Court examined whether tariff value was applicable to the particular goods and emphasised the importance of Section 15 in determining the relevant rate and tariff valuation. The decision also distinguished goods for which a tariff value had been notified from goods for which the transaction-value mechanism remained applicable. The case demonstrates an important practical lesson: valuation cannot be separated from classification. Before determining the applicable customs value, it is necessary to correctly identify what the imported goods are and which tariff heading and notification apply to them. Part IV – Critical Discussion 13. Why Tariff Values Matter to Importers For an importer, customs valuation directly affects the cost of bringing goods into India. A business may negotiate an international purchase contract months before the goods actually arrive. During that period, the applicable tariff value or customs duty rate may change. This creates a compliance responsibility for importers to keep track of the legal position at the time of actual assessment. Tariff values also provide a certain degree of standardisation. Instead of customs authorities individually determining the value of every covered commodity transaction, a notified benchmark can be applied uniformly to the specified class of goods. At the same time, this system requires precision. The importer must first establish that the goods actually fall within the description covered by the relevant notification. 14. Challenges Associated with the Tariff-Value System Frequent revisions Tariff values for certain commodities may be revised periodically. Importers therefore have to monitor notifications regularly. Classification disputes A tariff value may apply to one category or description of goods but not necessarily to another. A dispute over classification can therefore become a valuation issue as well. Different units of valuation Tariff values may be notified in different units depending upon the commodity—for example, per kilogram, per metric tonne or per 10 grams. Incorrect application of the unit can lead to incorrect assessment. Impact on business costs A change in tariff value can alter the customs-tax liability of an importer and therefore affect working capital, pricing and inventory decisions. Compliance burden Businesses involved in regular imports need internal systems to monitor customs notifications and ensure that the correct tariff value is applied to each Bill of Entry. 15. Practical Example: Why the Date Matters Consider an importer who purchases a commodity on 25 September. At that time, the applicable tariff value is ₹X. The goods arrive in India later, and the Bill of Entry for home consumption is presented on 5 October. If CBIC has revised the tariff value with effect from 1 October, the importer cannot simply rely on the value that existed on the date of purchase. Section 15 requires the applicable rate and tariff valuation to be determined with reference to the statutory date prescribed by the provision. For home-consumption imports, this is generally the date on which the Bill of Entry is presented. This example shows why customs compliance teams must monitor notifications close to the date of filing the Bill of Entry. 16. Suggestions for Better Compliance The tariff-value system can function effectively when importers maintain a proper compliance mechanism. Businesses dealing in commodities covered by tariff-value notifications should consider maintaining a customs valuation checklist covering: Correct classification of the imported goods. Verification of whether Section 14(2) applies. Checking the latest tariff-value notification. Confirming the notification’s effective date. Identifying the relevant date under Section 15. Checking the correct unit of tariff value. Verifying the applicable customs duty rate. Considering exemptions or concessional notifications. Correctly calculating IGST and other applicable components. Preserving invoices and supporting import documentation. Such measures can minimise valuation disputes and help businesses avoid avoidable financial and procedural complications. Part V – Conclusion and Suggestions The concept of tariff value demonstrates that customs valuation is not simply a matter of accepting the price written on an import invoice. The Customs Act, 1962 establishes transaction value as the general basis of valuation, but Section 14(2) creates a specific statutory mechanism through which the CBIC may prescribe tariff values for specified classes of goods. Once a valid tariff value has been notified for the relevant goods, customs duty is chargeable with reference to that value. The Supreme Court’s decision in Century Metal Recycling Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India provides important guidance on the distinction between transaction value and tariff value and confirms that Section 14(2) operates notwithstanding Section 14(1) where a tariff value has actually been notified. At the same time, the existence of Section 14(2) does not mean that customs authorities can replace a declared transaction value with an arbitrary figure. Where the transaction-value mechanism applies, the statutory procedure under the Customs Valuation Rules must be followed before the declared value is rejected. The role of Section 15 is equally important because the applicable tariff value depends upon the legally prescribed date. For home-consumption imports, the date of presentation of the Bill of Entry is generally decisive. From a practical perspective, tariff values are particularly relevant for businesses importing commodities whose prices fluctuate substantially. The system can provide consistency and administrative efficiency, but it also places an obligation on importers to remain updated about CBIC notifications, tariff classifications and applicable dates. Ultimately, tariff value represents a point where law, taxation and international commerce meet. A seemingly technical valuation rule can directly influence the tax burden associated with an import transaction. For this reason, importers and customs professionals must treat tariff valuation not merely as a calculation exercise but as an important component of overall legal and tax compliance. The broader lesson is that effective customs compliance requires more than knowing the rate of duty. It requires an understanding of what is being imported, how it is classified, which valuation rule applies, what notification is currently in force and which statutory date determines the applicable valuation. A careful approach to these questions can help ensure that customs assessments remain both accurate and legally sustainable. Key Takeaways Section 14(1) of the Customs Act generally adopts transaction value as the basis for customs valuation. Section 14(2) permits CBIC to prescribe tariff values for specified classes of imported or exported goods. Where a tariff value has been validly notified, customs duty is calculated with reference to that value. Tariff value and transaction value are distinct legal concepts. Section 15 determines the relevant date for the applicable rate of duty and tariff valuation. Tariff valuation can also affect the computation of IGST on imported goods under the Customs Tariff Act. The Supreme Court in Century Metal Recycling clarified the relationship between transaction value and tariff value. Customs authorities cannot arbitrarily replace transaction value with an unsupported figure where the ordinary valuation provisions apply. Importers should regularly monitor CBIC notifications and verify classification, effective dates and applicable tariff values. Proper customs valuation is an important part of legal, financial and tax compliance in international trade. Cases Discussed Century Metal Recycling Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India, Civil Appeal No. 5011 of 2019, Supreme Court of India, decided on 17 May 2019 — The Supreme Court explained the operation of Section 14 and Rule 12 of the Customs Valuation Rules, 2007. The decision recognises transaction value as the ordinary basis of valuation, requires objective grounds and the prescribed procedure for rejection of declared value, and distinguishes this regime from cases where tariff value has actually been notified under Section 14(2). Eicher Tractors Ltd. v. Commissioner of Customs, (2001) 1 SCC 315 — The Supreme Court decision is cited in the references and supports the primacy of the price actually paid or payable as transaction value, subject to the statutory grounds on which that value may lawfully be rejected. M/s Vaibhav International v. Commissioner of Customs, Karnataka High Court, decided 9 March 2026 — The Karnataka High Court decision is discussed as a contemporary illustration concerning imported areca nuts, classification and valuation, including the relevance of Section 15 in determining the applicable rate and tariff valuation and the distinction between goods covered by tariff value and those governed by transaction value. References The Customs Act, 1962, §§ 12, 14 & 15. The Customs Valuation (Determination of Value of Imported Goods) Rules, 2007. The Customs Tariff Act, 1975, § 3. The Integrated Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. India Code, The Customs Act, 1962. CBIC, Customs-related notifications and statutory materials. CBIC Tax Information Portal. Supreme Court of India, judicial decisions relating to customs valuation. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Custom Duty NotificationsGoods And Services TaxGSTIGST Author Info Name: Usha Kumari Qualification: BA.LLB Location: Ambala, Haryana Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Usha Kumari GST in India: A Transformative Reform or Still a Work in Progress? May 13, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Custom Duty Abatement of Customs Duty on Damaged Goods Under Section 22: Conditions, Valuation & Cases October 4, 2026 Customs Duty Exemptions: Scope, Conditions and Principle of Strict Interpretation October 4, 2026 Section 28 Customs Demand Does Not Require Prior Challenge to Self-Assessment: CESTAT Ahmedabad October 3, 2026 Customs Cannot Reclassify 226 Auto Parts Without Article-Specific Findings: CESTAT Chennai October 3, 2026 Used Rails’ Condition Governs Customs Classification; Value Rejection Needs Sequential Rules: CESTAT Chennai October 3, 2026 Helicopter Parts Eligible for SFIS/SHIS Customs Exemption: CESTAT Mumbai October 3, 2026