Summary: The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal’s Practice Note dated 30 September 2026 makes electronic filing through the designated ITAT portal compulsory for new appeals from 1 October 2026. While mandatory e-filing can improve accessibility, record management and procedural efficiency, the implementation framework raises important questions concerning transition, technical failures, defective filings, limitation and access to judicial consideration. The Practice Note derives its procedural authority from section 255(5) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 and Rule 6 of the Income-tax (Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 1963, as amended in 2025. Its refusal-to-register consequence for non-compliant appeals therefore has to operate consistently with the wider statutory and procedural framework, including Rule 12’s treatment of defects and the Tribunal’s powers concerning delay and correction. Particular difficulties arise where a taxpayer attempts to file on the last permissible day, encounters a portal failure or submits an appeal containing a curable defect. The Practice Note provides an email helpdesk and acknowledgment mechanism, but does not expressly set out an outage protocol, contingency filing route or process for resolving disputed presentation dates. The article therefore does not contend that compulsory e-filing is inherently unlawful. Instead, it argues that effective implementation requires safeguards such as traceable submissions, reasoned defect notices, reasonable correction opportunities, assisted filing, an urgent-filing mechanism and access to the Bench where Registry objections affect the statutory right of appeal. Table of Contents▸ Mandatory ITAT Efiling and the Right to an Effective Appeal The amended Rules supply the legal foundation The note provides only a one day transition on its face Non-registration must preserve the Tribunal’s discretion The upload date leaves difficult limitation questions unanswered A helpdesk is useful but cannot settle legal consequences Authorised representatives reduce one burden but access remains uneven The old physical docket remains outside the new document process Access to justice supplies the constitutional standard The corrective measures should accompany compulsory filing Show all 10 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Mandatory ITAT Efiling and the Right to an Effective Appeal A critical examination of the Practice Note dated 30 September 2026 The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT)’s Practice Note dated 30 September 2026 makes its designated e-filing portal the compulsory route for new appeals from 1 October 2026. Electronic filing can reduce travel, improve record availability and make appellate practice more efficient. Those benefits do not answer the harder question raised by the note: what happens when a taxpayer has an appeal to pursue but cannot complete the prescribed electronic process, or submits an appeal with a defect that can be corrected? The principal weakness is the absence, within the note itself, of a sufficiently clear framework for transition, technical failure and defect correction. Paragraph 7 says that non-compliant appeals will not be registered. A procedural reform carrying that consequence should state how a litigant secures a filing record, receives a defect notice and obtains consideration by the Tribunal. Otherwise, an administrative filing problem can become an obstacle to the exercise of a statutory remedy. This article examines the supplied Practice Note bearing F.31-AT/Gen. Adm./Central/Delhi/2025-26. Its criticism concerns the safeguards accompanying implementation. It does not assume that mandatory electronic filing is inherently unlawful, that every defect must be excused, or that a court has already invalidated the note. The amended Rules supply the legal foundation The Practice Note invokes section 255(5) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 and Rule 6 of the Income-tax (Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 1963, as amended in 2025. The official amendment substitutes Rule 6 and requires an appeal to be filed by the appellant or an authorised agent under a digital signature. It also defines digital signature by reference to section 3 of the Information Technology Act, 2000. The signing requirement therefore rests on an amendment to the Rules, rather than solely on an administrative instruction. [1] The chronology matters. The amendment provides for commencement upon publication in the Official Gazette. The Practice Note separately fixes 1 October 2026 as the point from which non-portal or otherwise non-compliant appeals will not be registered. Criticism should distinguish the earlier legal change from the immediate operational cutoff. Calling digital signatures a wholly new requirement introduced on 30 September would misstate the position. The Tribunal has procedural authority, but that authority must operate within the statutory scheme. The proper inquiry is whether implementation preserves a workable route to invoke the remedy and the Tribunal’s powers concerning defects and delay. A bare assertion that e-filing has no legal foundation would weaken a serious challenge. The note provides only a one day transition on its face A note dated 30 September takes compulsory effect on 1 October. Its forwarding letter directs circulation among Registry staff, Members, departmental representatives and Bar Associations, and prominent display on notice boards. These directions establish a dissemination process; they do not establish that every affected practitioner and litigant received the instructions before the cutoff. The earlier amendment is a relevant response to the criticism that digital filing arrived without warning. It does not, by itself, demonstrate adequate notice of every operational consequence now prescribed, including the refusal to register and the different treatment of existing physical appeals. The fair criticism is that this particular note provides no prospective transition window and records no readiness assessment. A compulsory change should allow time to resolve authorisations, contact particulars, DSC compatibility and access difficulties. A defined transition supported by assisted filing could reduce avoidable exclusion. The note’s silence does not prove that the portal was untested or that assistance was unavailable elsewhere; it means those safeguards cannot be established from this document. Non-registration must preserve the Tribunal’s discretion Paragraph 7 combines three circumstances: filing outside the portal, filing in an incorrect prescribed form, and defective signing or verification. Each may prevent registration under the note. Their legal consequences, however, should not be assumed to be identical. Rule 12 of the Income-tax (Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 1963 permits the Tribunal to reject an appeal memorandum that is not in the prescribed form or to return it for amendment within the time allowed. The Rule therefore recognises correction as an available course and places the discretion with the Tribunal. The 2025 amendment identified above does not amend Rule 12. [2] A Registry can scrutinise compliance and issue objections. The concern arises if non-registration is administered as a final refusal without a route to correction or judicial consideration. A practice note should be read consistently with the Rules; it should not be used to make the Tribunal’s existing discretion practically inaccessible. This does not mean that a wholly unsigned upload is necessarily valid institution of an appeal. Nor does Rule 12 guarantee that every defect will be cured or that every corrected filing will relate back automatically. The necessary protection is narrower: a traceable submission, a specific defect notice, a reasonable correction process and access to the Bench where the legal consequence is disputed. The upload date leaves difficult limitation questions unanswered Paragraph 5 treats the upload date of a duly digitally signed and verified appeal as the date of presentation. That is a useful protection for compliant filings: subsequent Registry scrutiny should not displace that presentation date. Paragraph 6 separately provides acknowledgment by email and a registration summary after scrutiny within two working days. The difficulty lies with an upload that is later found defective, or a genuine attempt that fails before submission. Consider a taxpayer who attempts to file on the last permissible day but receives a technical error, or submits a signed appeal with an incorrect attachment. These are hypothetical examples, not reported incidents. The note does not specify when a corrected submission retains an earlier date, what evidence of a failed attempt is acceptable, or how a disputed presentation date reaches the Bench. For appeals governed by section 253(3) of the Income-tax Act, 1961, the general period was changed with effect from 1 October 2024 to two months from the end of the month of communication of the order, subject to applicable special provisions. Section 253(5) permits admission of a delayed appeal or cross-objection on sufficient cause. Neither an automatic acknowledgment nor a helpdesk email grants condonation. [3] A documented technical failure may support a request for relief, but the litigant should not be forced to incur additional proceedings merely because the filing system offers no clear contingency process. The Tribunal should prescribe how such attempts are recorded and how limitation disputes are placed before it. A helpdesk is useful but cannot settle legal consequences Paragraph 14 supplies an email helpdesk at [email protected]. That is practical assistance. It is not an express contingency filing route and carries no stated power to preserve presentation dates or decide limitation. The note specifies no outage protocol, fallback submission mechanism, response deadline or urgent escalation process. A sound system would generate incident references, retain relevant technical logs and publish material outages. It should also explain how documents can be provisionally tendered when the portal is unavailable, subject to lawful authority and later compliance. The requirement becomes especially consequential for stay applications, which paragraph 13 places under the same electronic procedure. An urgent request for protection against recovery needs a defined route to the Registry and Bench when technical access fails. Ordinary email support should not be the only mechanism described for that situation. Authorised representatives reduce one burden but access remains uneven Paragraph 4 permits digital signing and verification by the prescribed person or an authorised representative in accordance with Rule 16, and requires the assessee specifically to authorise the representative to file the appeal. This is a useful facility. It would be inaccurate to claim that the note invariably requires every assessee to obtain a personal DSC. Nevertheless, representative access does not eliminate all difficulty. A litigant may lack a representative, have outdated contact particulars or face problems with digital access. Paragraphs 10 to 12 also make recorded contact details and dashboard access important for respondents. Login by OTP or password should be distinguished from the separate requirement for digital signing. A modern filing framework should include assisted filing at Benches, clear authority formats, accessible instructions and a documented process for updating contacts and representatives. The ability to hire professional assistance should not become the practical test of access to appellate adjudication. The old physical docket remains outside the new document process Paragraph 8 requires subsequent paper books, documents and petitions in electronically filed appeals to be submitted through the portal only. Paragraph 9 requires those documents in appeals physically filed before 1 October 2026 to remain in physical mode only. Preserving an established physical record can avoid disruption and protect pending cases from compulsory retrospective conversion. The difficulty is the absence of a stated voluntary migration process. A practitioner handling both categories must maintain different submission workflows, and earlier litigants do not receive the same remote document-filing facility. There is also a question about fresh connected applications in older physical appeals. Paragraph 13 extends electronic procedure to stay and miscellaneous applications, while paragraph 9 retains physical petitions in earlier physical cases. Their interaction deserves express clarification. The note should not leave an urgent applicant to resolve that ambiguity through trial and error. Access to justice supplies the constitutional standard In Anita Kushwaha v. Pushap Sudan, (2016) 8 SCC 509, the Supreme Court recognised access to justice within Articles 14 and 21 and emphasised effective, accessible, speedy and affordable adjudication. Subsequent Supreme Court decisions reiterate that principle. [4] That principle supplies a standard for assessing compulsory filing arrangements; it does not establish a constitutional entitlement to paper filing in every case. A digital process may improve access substantially. The concern is whether avoidable barriers, unsupported refusal to register or the absence of a workable failure remedy make the statutory appeal ineffective for an affected litigant. Any challenge under Article 226 would require concrete facts: the submission or attempted submission, the defect or failure, the Registry’s response and the prejudice suffered. A court could consider a protective interpretation or targeted directions rather than invalidate the entire system. The most supportable contention is that the procedure must remain proportionate and preserve access to adjudication. The corrective measures should accompany compulsory filing The Tribunal should supplement the note with a defined defect-curing period and a mechanism for referring contested Registry objections to the Bench. The process should preserve the original submission record while leaving questions of valid presentation, relation back and condonation for lawful determination. It should also prescribe an outage and urgent-filing protocol, provide assisted filing, and clarify fresh stay and miscellaneous applications connected with older physical appeals. Optional migration of earlier cases could be introduced with safeguards for record integrity. These are proposed improvements; they are not facilities expressly conferred by the supplied note. The two-working-day registration commitment should be matched by timely, reasoned defect communication. A litigant should know whether the appeal is registered, awaits correction or requires a judicial order. Unexplained administrative limbo is particularly damaging when limitation or recovery is involved. Mandatory e-filing can strengthen the ITAT. Its legitimacy in operation depends on whether the institution provides an effective remedy when compliance fails for a reason capable of explanation or correction. A taxpayer’s appeal should reach a judicial decision through a process that records defects and resolves them fairly. The Practice Note needs those safeguards stated as clearly as its refusal-to-register requirement. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under tax appeal Author Info Name: CA Amresh Vashisht Qualification: CA in Practice Location: Meerut, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 178 View full profile → More from CA Amresh Vashisht Decoding Form 10B or Form 10BB: Three Tests Determine Correct Audit Report September 28, 2026 Annual Crisis of 30th September Tax Audit Deadline September 10, 2026 EY’s 1% Success Fee: NCLT Flags ICAI Ethics Issue September 5, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax 20% Profit Estimate Cut to 8% for Spare Parts Business: ITAT Cuttack October 3, 2026 ₹29.34 Crore Cryptocurrency Additions Remanded for Speaking Order: ITAT Agra October 3, 2026 Mechanical Section 151 Sanction Invalidates Reassessment: ITAT Agra October 3, 2026 Mechanical Section 151 Approval Invalidates Reassessment: ITAT Agra October 3, 2026 Mechanical Section 151 Approval Invalidates Reassessment Proceedings: ITAT Agra October 3, 2026 ITAT Hyderabad Deletes Section 69C Addition, Allows Section 80IA Interest Deduction Subject to Verification October 3, 2026