Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14771 Case Name PCIT Vs Dinesh Jain (Gujarat High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Gujarat High Court Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); PCIT Vs Dinesh Jain (Gujarat High Court) Summary: The Gujarat High Court dismissed the Revenue’s tax appeals challenging the restriction of disallowance on alleged bogus purchases to 6% instead of the entire purchase amount. The appeals concerned Assessment Years 2007-08 and 2008-09, with Tax Appeal No. 1058 of 2024 for Assessment Year 2007-08 treated as the lead matter. The assessee had declared income of Rs.1,61,470 for that year. Following information from the Investigation Wing, Mumbai, concerning accommodation bills issued by the Bhanwarlal Jain Group, the assessment was reopened. The Assessing Officer made an addition of Rs.38,50,63,500 on account of bogus purchases, and the CIT (Appeals) upheld both the reassessment and the addition. The Tribunal partly allowed the assessee’s appeals and restricted the disallowance to 6%, relying on a coordinate Bench decision concerning Pankaj Chaudhary. The Revenue argued that the transactions were sham and relied on N.K. Industries, N.K. Proteins and Premlata Tekriwal to support full disallowance. The High Court noted that departmental appeals concerning similar transactions with the same group had already been dismissed where the Tribunal estimated disallowance at 6%. It relied on Keshri Exports, which considered Pankaj J. Chaudhary and referred to Surya Impex. The extracted reasoning emphasised taxation of the income component of disputed transactions and the Tribunal’s analysis of the available material. Holding that the proposed questions were already answered and that no substantial question of law arose, the Court dismissed both appeals without an order as to costs. Cases Discussed ITA No. 1379/Ahd/2017 — Pankaj Chaudhary (ITAT; coordinate Bench decision) — Relied upon by the Tribunal to restrict the disallowance to 6%. The supplied text uses “Pankaj J. Chaudhary” in the proposed question and “Pankaj K. Chaudhary” in paragraph 3.5; those variants are preserved in the Full Text. Tax Appeal Nos. 240 to 242 of 2003 — N.K. Industries Ltd. v. DCIT (Gujarat High Court) — Cited by the Revenue for adding the entire bogus purchase amount under the principles of Sections 68 and 69C. The Revenue referred to dismissal of the special leave petition on 16.01.2017. [2023] 456 ITR 671 — PCIT v. Premlata Tekriwal (Calcutta High Court) — Invoked by the Revenue to support addition of the entire expenditure established as unexplained or bogus; this is the Revenue’s reliance, not a separately adopted holding in the present judgment. N.K. Proteins v. Dy. CIT (Supreme Court; dismissal of special leave petition as described in the source) — Cited by the Revenue in support of full disallowance of bogus purchases. PCIT v. Keshri Exports (Gujarat High Court) — Relied upon by the High Court and extensively extracted. The decision upheld the Tribunal’s fact-based restriction of disallowance to 6% and declined interference. R/Tax Appeal No. 617 of 2022, dated 07.03.2023 — Pr. CIT v. Pankaj J. Chaudhary (Gujarat High Court) — Considered in Keshri Exports, as recorded in the present judgment, in support of the 6% disallowance. Mayank Diamond Private Limited / Mayank Diamonds P Ltd (Gujarat High Court; name variants as supplied) — Discussed in the extracted Tribunal reasoning. The Revenue urged its application; the Tribunal compared the gross-profit figures and noted that the High Court had restricted the addition to 5% of gross profit. Tax Appeal No. 674 of 2022, dated 16.01.2023 — Principal Commissioner of Income Tax 1, Surat v. M/s. Surya Impex (Gujarat High Court) — Referred to in the extracted Keshri Exports reasoning as a decision in favour of the assessee involving similar accommodation entries from the same Bhanwarlal Jain Group. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF GUJARAT HIGH COURT Heard learned Senior Standing Counsel Mr. Karan Sanghani for the appellant. 2. These Tax Appeals are filed under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (For short “the Act”) against the order passed by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, Surat (For Short “the Tribunal”) in Dinesh Jain v. ITO [ITA No. 878/SRT/2023,dated 16-05-2024] for the Assessment Year 2007-08 and 2008-09 respectively. Since the facts are identical, Tax Appeal No. 1058 of 2024 for Assessment Year 2007-08 is taken as a lead matter. The appellant – Revenue has raised the following substantial questions of law :- (a) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon’ble ITAT is justified in partly allowing the appeal of the assessee and restricting addition @ 6% of the bogus purchases against the decision of the Ld. CIT (Appeals) in confirming the addition made by the Assessing Officer at the rate of 100% of bogus purchases amounting to Rs.38,50,63,613/-, ignoring the fact that these purchases are sham transactions fabricated through bogus paper concerns of Bhanwarlal Jain group, which was engaged in providing accommodation entries ? (b) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon’ble ITAT was justified in partly allowing the appeal of the Revenue relying upon the decision of the co-ordinate Bench, in the case of Pankaj J. Chaudhary in ITA No. 1379/AHD/2017? (c) Whether, on the facts and in the circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon’ble ITAT is correct in not considering that the amount claimed as payment to hawala dealers was, in effect, suppression of profits by obtaining bogus purchase bills, which was liable to be added to the income of the Assessee? (d) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon’ble ITAT has erred in not considering – *the judgment of Gujarat High Court in the case of N.K. Industries Ltd. v. DCIT in TA No. 240 to 242 of 2003 which has been upheld by the Hon’ble Apex Court in Special Leave to Appeal No. 769 of 2017 dated 16.01.2017, wherein the Hon’ble High Court decided that 100% purchases from bogus parties was liable to be added in the hands of the assessee, reversing the order passed by the Hon’ble ITAT that restricted addition to 25%, holding that such restriction goes against the principles of Section 68 and 69C of Income Tax Act ? *the judgment of Calcutta High Court in the case of PCIT v. Premlata Tekriwal [2023] 456 ITR 671 (Calcutta)) involving similar issue of purchase of bogus concern to suppress profits wherein the court held that “since it was established that expenditure was unexplained/bogus, entire amount of bogus expenditure was to be added to income of assessee? *the ratio of judgment of Hon’ble Apex Court on the issue of unexplained expenditure (bogus purchase) in the case of N.K. Proteins v. Dy. CIT (SC) wherein, the SLP filed by the assessee has been dismissed by the Hon’ble Apex Court? (e) Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case and in law, the Hon’ble ITAT is justified in restricting the addition to 6% of the bogus purchases against the addition made of 100% of bogus purchases amounting to Rs. Rs.38,50,63,613/- by the assessee from the entry provider and has not appreciated that the assessee has not established the genuineness of the expenditure in the form of purchases either before the Assessing Officer or before the Ld. CIT (Appeals) as the said purchases have been established by the Investigation Wing, Mumbai, as a Sham transaction?” 3. Brief facts of the case are that :- 3.1. The respondent assessee filed its return of income for Assessment Year 2007-08 on 15.10.2007, declaring the total income of Rs.1,61,470/-. 3.2. On the basis of the information received from the Investigation Wing, Mumbai in case of Shri Bhanwarlal Jain Group, it was found that the said group was engaged in the business of issuing non-genuine and purchase accommodation bills, unsecured entries to loans various parties and the assessee was found to have obtained non-genuine purchase bills from the said group amounting to Rs.38,50,63,613/–. 3.3. The case of the assessee was therefore reopened and assessment order under Section 143(3) read with Section 147 of the Act was passed on 26.02.2015, assessing the total income at Rs.38,52,23,974/- after making addition of Rs.38,50,63,500/- on account of bogus purchases. 3.4. Being aggrieved, the assessee preferred an appeal before the CIT (Appeals). The CIT (Appeals) vide order dated 29.08.2023 dismissed the appeal of the assessee on both grounds i.e. validity of reassessment proceedings as well as on the merits of the case. The CIT (Appeals) upheld the addition made on account of bogus purchases. 3.5. Being aggrieved, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Tribunal. The Tribunal by impugned order dated 16.05.2024 for the Assessment Years 2007-08 and 2008-09 in ITA No. 878 and 879/SRT/2023, has partly allowed the appeal of the assessee and restricted the disallowance to 6% of the bogus purchases against the addition made by the Assessing Officer of 100% of the bogus purchases. The Tribunal has relied on its decision rendered in the case of Pankaj K. Chaudhary in ITA 1379/Ahd/2017 for Assessment Year 2007-08. 4. This Court finds that in several matters arising out of transactions with the said Bhanwarlal Jain Group, the Tax Appeals of the Department have been dismissed where the learned ITAT has assessed the disallowance at 6%, as has been done in the present case. This Court in the case of PCIT v. Keshri Exports (Gujarat) after considering the decision inf the case of Pr. CIT v. Pankaj J. Chaudhary [R/Tax Appeal No. 617 of 2022 dated 07.03.2023] has upheld the disallowance of 6% of bogus purchases. 5. The relevant extracts from the judgment in the case of Keshri Exports (supra) is as under :- “5. The Assessing Officer noticed the contentions of the assessee that confirmation, purchase bills, bank statement, stock register, copy of ITR were already filed. The Assessing Officer was, however, of the view that transactions were bogus and merely that it routed through the banking channel, was not sufficient to conclude that they were the genuine transactions. The contention of the assessee that he had not dealt with the Bhanvarlal Jain group was also negatived. The appellate Commissioner took the view that disallowance was required to be sustained at 12.5% of the purchase. The Assessing Officer was directed accordingly to workout disallowance. In para 10.6, the Commissioner of Income Tax (Appeals), recorded thus, “As held above, it is clear that the appellants have made purchases from elsewhere, but have obtained bills from the impugned suppliers. From the Trading & P & L account and Audit report it can be seen that the GP rate shown by appellant is 1.85% oil sales. In such circumstances the disallowance of 100% of purchases cannot be justified. Also as held above, the appellant would nave indulged in above practice in order to get some benefit. And it is this benefit derived by the appellant that need to be taxed. What would be the magnitude of benefit derived by the appellant is the mute question. In the appellant’s case, it is seen that GP rate shown is 0.78%”. 5.1 The final view was expressed in para 10.10, “Following the above judicial pronouncements and views taken by Ld. CIT(A) & AOS in a few identical cases. In a couple of identical cases, where the GP shown by the appellants is more than 5%, I have confirmed the disallowance of the impugned purchases to the extent of 5% of the impugned purchases. However in the instant case the appellant is showing measly G.P. of only 0.78% on turnover. In view of this I am of the considered opinion that disallowance of 12.5% of the impugned purchases would be reasonable and would meet the ends of justice. Hence, the disallowance is restricted to 12.5% of the impugned purchases for the assessment year in appeal. 5.2 The disallowance at 100% was made in the assessment order for the year under consideration to the tune of Rs. 4,34,00,343/-, which was reduced to 12.5% at Rs. 54,25,040/-. Thereafter, the issue was dealt with by the appellate Tribunal. The appellate Tribunal endorsed to the view taken by the appellate Commissioner. It was observed that Assessing Officer failed to consider the evidence furnished by the assessee. 5.3 Considering the facts and relevant aspect, the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal partially allowed the appeal of the assessee to further reduce the disallowance at 6%. In so concluding, the Tribunal observed in paragraph No.21 as under, “”…….during the financial year under consideration the assessee has shown total turnover of Rs. 66,09,62,458/-. The assessee has shown Gross Profit @ 78% and net Profit @ 0.02% (page 11 of paper Book). The assessee while filing the return of income has declared taxable income of Rs. 1,81,840/- only. We are conscious of the facts that dispute before us is only with regard of the disputed purchases of Rs. 4.34 Crore, which was shown to have purchased from the entity managed by Bhanwarlal Jain Group. During the search action on Bhanwarlal Jain no stock of goods/material was found to the investigation party. Bhanwarlal Jain while filing return of income has offered commission income (entry provider). Before us, the Ld. CIT-DR for the revenue vehemently submitted that the ratio of decision of Hon’ble Gujarat High Court in Mayank Diamond Private Limited (supra) is directly applicable on the facts of the present case. We find that in Mayank Diamonds the Hon’ble High Court restricted the additions to 5% of GP. We have seen that in Mayank Diamonds P Ltd (supra), the assessee had declared GP @ 1.03% on turnover of Rs 1.86 Crore. The disputed transaction in the said case was Rs. 1.68 Crore. However, in the present case the assessee has declared the GP @ 0.78%. It is settled law that under Income-tax, the tax authorities are not entitled to tax the entire transaction, but only the income component of the disputed transaction, to prevent the possibility of revenue leakage. Therefore, considering overall facts and circumstances of the present case, we are of the view that disallowances @ 6% of impugned purchases / disputed purchases would be sufficient to meet the possibility of revenue leakage. In the result the ground No. 2 of appeal raised by the assessee is partly allowed and the grounds of appeal raised by revenue are dismissed.” 6. In so concluding, the Tribunal observed in paragraph No.21 as under, “.during the financial year under consideration the assessee has shown total turnover of Rs. 66,09,62,458/-. The assessee has shown Gross Profit @ 78% and net Profit @ 0.02% (page 11 of paper Book). The assessee while filing the return of income has declared taxable income of Rs. 1,81,840/- only. We are conscious of the facts that dispute before us is only with regard of the disputed purchases of Rs. 4.34 Crore, which was shown to have purchased from the entity managed by Bhanwarlal Jain Group. During the search action on Bhanwarlal Jain no stock of goods/material was found to the investigation party. Bhanwarlal Jain while filing return of income has offered commission income (entry provider). Before us, the Ld. CIT-DR for the revenue vehemently submitted that the ratio of decision of Hon’ble Gujarat High Court in Mayank Diamond Private Limited (supra) is directly applicable on the facts of the present case. We find that in Mayank Diamonds the Hon’ble High Court restricted the additions to 5% of GP. We have seen that in Mayank Diamonds P Ltd (supra), the assessee had declared GP @ 1.03% on turnover of Rs 1.86 Crore. The disputed transaction in the said case was Rs. 1.68 Crore. However, in the present case the assessee has declared the GP @ 0.78%. It is settled law that under Income-tax, the tax authorities are not entitled to tax the entire transaction, but only the income component of the disputed transaction, to prevent the possibility of revenue leakage. Therefore, considering overall facts and circumstances of the present case, we are of the view that disallowances @ 6% of impugned purchases / disputed purchases would be sufficient to meet the possibility of revenue leakage. In the result the ground No. 2 of appeal raised by the assessee is partly allowed and the grounds of appeal raised by revenue are dismissed.” 6. The view taken and the conclusion arrived at by the appellant Tribunal are based on material before it and after analysing the facts and figure available before it. When the Tribunal has thought it fit to reduce the disallowance at 6% from 12.5%, the Tribunal had before it the facts which were duly analysed by it. No interference is called for in the said conclusion and findings of the Tribunal in the present appeal by this court. 6.1 The another weighing aspect is that the Tax Appeal No. 674 of 2022 in Principal Commissioner of Income Tax 1, Surat v. M/s.Surya Impex which came to be decided by the co-ordinate Bench on 16.1.2023 dealt with the very issue of accommodation entries provided by Bhanwarlal Jain Group. The group involved in the said case is the same group who is saddled with allegations of providing accommodation entry to the assesse. In M/s. Surya Impex (supra) the court held in favour of the assessee. The questions of law involved in the said case were of the same nature and were in the context of similar facts involving the same group. 7. For all the above reasons, substantial questions of law proposed by the appellant in this appeal stands already answered. No question of law much less any substantial questions of law arise in the facts of the present case. No other substantial question of law arises. The appeal is meritless. It is summarily dismissed.” 6. In view of the above, the substantial questions of law proposed by the appellant in the appeal stands already answered and therefore, no question of law much less any substantial questions of law, can be said to have arisen in the facts of the present case. 7. The Tax Appeals are accordingly dismissed. No order as to costs. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Bogus purchaseshigh court judgmentsincome tax act 1961section 143(3)Section 147section 260ASection 68 Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,072 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Earlier Property Booking Cannot Override Stamp Value Without Linked Consideration: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Section 50 Deeming Fiction Cannot Reduce Book Profit Under Section 40(b): ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Transfer Pricing Adjustment Alone Cannot Trigger Section 271(1)(c) Penalty: ITAT Ranchi October 6, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Assessment Without Implementing DRP Directions Is Waste Paper: ITAT Chandigarh October 6, 2026 Final Assessment Ignoring Binding DRP Directions Is Void: ITAT Delhi October 6, 2026 Final Assessment Ignoring Binding DRP Directions Quashed: ITAT Delhi October 6, 2026 AO Cannot Disregard Binding DRP Directions in Final Assessment: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Maritime Training Is Education Eligible for Section 11 Exemption: Bombay HC October 6, 2026 Maritime Training Qualifies as Education for Section 11 Exemption: ITAT Mumbai October 6, 2026