Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13409 Case Name Kanishk Sinha & Another Vs State of West Bengal & Another (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Kanishk Sinha & Another Vs State of West Bengal & Another (Supreme Court of India) Summary: The Supreme Court considered whether the direction in Priyanka Srivastava Vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2015) 6 SCC 287, requiring applications under Section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 to be supported by an affidavit, could be applied to complaints lodged before that judgment. Kanishk Sinha and his wife challenged the Calcutta High Court’s order dated 27.06.2024 dismissing their criminal revisions concerning two FIRs registered at Bhowanipur Police Station, Kolkata. The first FIR, No.179 of 2010 dated 27.04.2010, alleged offences under Sections 120B, 420, 467, 468, 471, 469 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 read with Section 66A(a)(b)(c) of the Information Technology Act, 2000. The second FIR, No.298 of 2011 dated 08.06.2011, arose from a complaint before the Magistrate, who exercised powers under Section 190 read with Section 156(3) of the CrPC and directed registration of an FIR. It alleged offences under Sections 466, 469 and 471 read with 120B(ii) of the IPC. The allegations in both matters were stated to relate to forgery, fraud, deception, cheating, damage to reputation, unlawful extraction of money, threat, misrepresentation and criminal conspiracy. Six revisions had been filed before the Calcutta High Court concerning charge sheets and certain interim orders, but the issue material to the present appeals was the appellants’ contention that the second FIR had been registered on a complaint under Section 156(3) which was not accompanied by an affidavit, contrary to the direction in Priyanka Srivastava. The Single Judge of the High Court held that the direction could operate only prospectively and therefore did not apply to complaints lodged in 2010-2011. The Supreme Court explained that legislation is ordinarily prospective unless retrospective operation is expressly provided, whereas a judgment of a Constitutional Court laying down or interpreting law operates retrospectively unless the judgment itself specifically directs prospective operation. The Court noted that prospective operation may be adopted to avoid unnecessary burden or undue hardship and to prevent settled matters from being unsettled. Applying that principle, however, the Court examined the actual language and context of Priyanka Srivastava. In that case, the Court had addressed frivolous complaints being filed before Magistrates and directed that applications under Section 156(3) CrPC be supported by an affidavit duly sworn by the applicant invoking the Magistrate’s jurisdiction. The Supreme Court in the present matter emphasised the words “a stage has come in this country” used in paragraph 30 of Priyanka Srivastava and held that the direction was prospective in nature. The Court also noted that copies of the judgment were directed to be circulated to Chief Justices of the High Courts for communication to Magistrates so that they would remain vigilant and diligent while exercising power under Section 156(3) CrPC. Accordingly, the Supreme Court held that the Calcutta High Court was right in concluding that the affidavit requirement under Priyanka Srivastava was prospective and did not invalidate the complaint lodged in 2010-2011. The appeals were dismissed. The Court further recorded that charge sheets had been filed in both cases and clarified that, if charges had not been framed, the appellants would remain at liberty to move applications for discharge, to be considered in accordance with law. Interim orders, if any, were vacated, and pending applications, if any, were disposed of. FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER 1. Leave granted. 2. The appellants before this Court are husband and wife (appellant no.1 & 2, respectively), who are aggrieved by an order dated 27.06.2024 passed by the learned Single Judge of the Calcutta High Court by which the criminal revisions of the present appellants were dismissed. The appellants are accused in two different cases, the first registered as a First Information Report (‘FIR’) at police station Bhowanipur, Kolkata as FIR No.179 of 2010 dated 27.04.2010 under Sections 120B, 420, 467, 468, 469, 471 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (‘IPC’), read with Section 66A (a)(b)(c) of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (‘IT Act’). In the instant case, the complainant was Keyur Majumder. The second FIR which was initially moved as a complaint before the Ld. Magistrate, and the Ld. Magistrate in exercise of powers under Section 190 read with 156(3) of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (‘CrPC’) directed registration of an FIR. The complainant in this case was Supriti Bandopadhyay, and the second FIR was registered as FIR No.298 of 2011 dated 08.06.2011 at police station Bhowanipur, Kolkata under Sections 466, 469, 471 read with 120B(ii) of IPC. 3. The nature of allegations in these two cases is similar against the appellants, relating to forgery, fraud, deception, cheating, damage caused to reputation, unlawful extraction of money, threat, misrepresentation and criminal conspiracy etc. In fact, six revisions were filed by the appellants before the Calcutta High Court regarding the filing of charge sheet, as well as against certain interim orders passed by the Lower Court. But that is not very relevant. What is relevant is the only point which has been raised by the appellants in their revisions before the High Court, which was that not only are these FIRs motivated and false, and thus liable to be quashed, but also that the second FIR has been registered on the complaint which was filed before the Magistrate under Section 156(3) of CrPC, and it was not accompanied by an affidavit and therefore, the law as laid down by this Court in Priyanka Srivastava vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (2015) 6 SCC 287 has been violated as all such complaints should now be accompanied by an affidavit according to Priyanka Srivastava (supra). The learned Single Judge of the High Court was of the view that the directions of this Court in the above case could only operate prospectively and will not have any retrospective application, and will thus not be applicable to the complaint lodged against the appellants in the year 2010-2011. The appellant no.1, all the same, who argued in person before the High Court, emphasised before this Court and would argue that all the judgments of this Court are retrospective in nature and therefore it cannot be said that this would not be retrospective particularly when it has not been specifically stated in the judgment of Priyanka Srivastava (supra) that it will operate prospectively. Now the law of prospective and retrospective operation is absolutely clear. Whereas a law made by the legislature is always prospective in nature unless it has been specifically stated in the statute itself about its retrospective operation, the reverse is true for the law which is laid down by a Constitutional Court, or law as it is interpretated by the Court. The judgment of the Court will always be retrospective in nature unless the judgment itself specifically states that the judgment will operate prospectively. The prospective operation of a judgment is normally done to avoid any unnecessary burden to persons or to avoid undue hardships to those who had bona fidely done something with the understanding of the law as it existed at the relevant point of time. Further, it is done not to unsettle something which has long been settled, as that would cause injustice to many. 4. In Priyanka Srivastava (supra) this Court was seized with an issue where frivolous complaints were being filed before the Magistrate only to harass people and therefore, in order to check this trend, it was directed that all applications before the Court where Section 156(3) CrPC applications are made must be supported by an affidavit duly sworn by the applicant who seeks to invoke the jurisdiction of the Magistrate. Such a step could only be prospective in nature, and this is clearly reflected from the very language used by the Learned Judges in Priyanka Srivastava (supra), where it has been said as under: “30. In our considered opinion, a stage has come in this country where Section 156(3) CrPC applications are to be supported by an affidavit duly sworn by the applicant who seeks the invocation of the jurisdiction of the Magistrate. That apart, in an appropriate case, the learned Magistrate would be well advised to verify the truth and also can verify the veracity of the allegations. This affidavit can make the applicant more responsible. We are compelled to say so as such kind of applications are being filed in a routine manner without taking any responsibility whatsoever only to harass certain persons. That apart, it becomes more disturbing and alarming when one tries to pick up people who are passing orders under a statutory provision which can be challenged under the framework of the said Act or under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. But it cannot be done to take undue advantage in a criminal court as if somebody is determined to settle the scores.” (Emphasis provided) 5. This Court in the above case then also issued directions that a copy of the judgment be sent to all the Chief Justices of the High Courts, who in turn will circulate the said copy to all the Magistrates, so that they remain “more vigilant and diligent while exercising the power under Section 156(3) CrPC”. It is necessary to mark the words in the above-quoted para 30 that “…a stage has come in this country…”, and thus, the above directions could only be prospective. This would signify that what the Court intended was that from now onward it would be necessary that an application would be accompanied by an affidavit. 6. We are of the opinion that the High Court was right in holding that the direction that a complaint will be accompanied by an affidavit, will be prospective in nature. We thus find no merit in these appeals and hence, the appeals stand dismissed. 7. We have been informed that the charge sheet has been filed in both the cases. In case charges have not been framed by the Court, then the appellants would be at liberty to move an application for their discharge, which shall be considered in accordance with law. 8. Interim order(s), if any, stand(s) vacated. 9. Pending application(s), if any, stand(s) disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under supreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,066 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi P&H HC Quashes Time-Barred Assessment for Superior Officer Intervention September 20, 2026 Madras High Court Sets Aside Rejection of IGST Ocean Freight Refund Claim September 20, 2026 ITAT Chennai Allows Section 11 Exemption Despite 31-Day Delay in Form 10B September 20, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Supreme Court Upholds Arbitral Tribunal’s Power to Implead Non-Signatory Parties September 20, 2026 Unstamped Arbitration Agreement Cannot Be Acted Upon Until Stamp Duty Paid: SC September 20, 2026 Section 21 Notice Not Mandatory for Impleading Arbitration Parties: SC September 20, 2026 General Reference Does Not Incorporate Arbitration Clause: Supreme Court September 20, 2026 Non-Signatory Parties Can Be Referred to Arbitration After Prima Facie Review: SC September 20, 2026 Arbitration Clause Incorporated Through Amenities Agreement Under Section 7(5): SC September 20, 2026