Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14735 Case Name Manish Traders Vs ITO (ITAT Delhi) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Related Assessment Year 2011-12 Courts All ITAT, ITAT Delhi Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Manish Traders Vs ITO (ITAT Delhi) Summary: ITAT Delhi held that leasehold rights held for a period of 90 years constituted a capital asset and could not be treated merely as tenancy rights. The assessee had acquired the industrial land under a registered lease deed dated 02.07.1977 and, while computing long-term capital gains on its subsequent transfer, opted for the fair market value (FMV) as on 01.04.1981. The approved valuer determined the value at Rs.7,32,000. The Assessing Officer rejected the assessee’s computation and made an addition of Rs.52,22,895, while the CIT(A) denied the benefit of FMV on the ground that the assessee possessed only tenancy rights. Examining the lease deed, the Tribunal noted that the assessee had paid premium, was responsible for taxes and development costs, could erect an industrial unit and, with permission, could mortgage, sublet, relinquish or assign its interest; the property could also devolve upon its legal heirs. These rights created a substantial interest in the property. Following the principles emerging from JCIT Vs Mukund Ltd., ITO Vs Shri Hari Om Gupta and M/s Natraj Vs DCIT, the Tribunal held that the 90-year leasehold interest was capital in nature and not a tenancy right. Since the property had been acquired before 01.04.1981, the assessee was entitled to adopt its FMV as on that date and determine the indexed cost of acquisition for computing long-term capital gains. The CIT(A)’s findings were reversed and the AO was directed to recompute the capital gain accordingly. As regards brokerage of Rs.2 lakh, the matter was restored to the AO for fresh adjudication after considering the evidence produced by the assessee. The appeal was consequently allowed for statistical purposes. Cases Discussed Joint Commissioner of Income Tax Vs Mukund Ltd., 291 ITR 249 — The Coordinate Bench held that premium paid for acquisition of leasehold rights in land for 99 years was capital in nature and could not be considered advance payment of rent. Relied upon while determining the nature of the assessee’s 90-year leasehold rights. ITO Vs Shri Hari Om Gupta, ITA No. 222/LKW/2013, order dated 11.04.2014 — The Coordinate Bench treated 99-year lease rights as a capital asset and held that Section 50C was applicable. Relied upon in holding the assessee’s 90-year leasehold rights to be capital in nature rather than tenancy rights. M/s Natraj Vs DCIT, Ahmedabad, ITA No. 3063/Ahd/2010, order dated 04.01.2013 — The Coordinate Bench held that the value of leasehold rights in land was to be determined under Section 48 by adopting the fair market value of the land as on 01.04.1981 and determining indexed cost of acquisition for computation of long-term capital gains. Followed by the Tribunal on the valuation issue. FULL TEXT OF THE ITAT ORDER Appellant, Manish Traders (hereinafter referred to as the ‘assessee’) by filing the present appeal sought to set aside the impugned order dated 02.06.2016 passed by the Commissioner of Income-tax (Appeals), Ghaziabad qua the assessment year 2011-12 on the grounds inter alia that :- “1. That the judgment is against the facts & law of the case. 2. That the learned CIT has erred in confirming the addition of the assessing officer in the Income on account of the Long Term Capital Gain of Rs.52,22,895/- . 3. That the learned AO wrongly denied the Indexation on the Long Term Capital Gain on wrong interpretation of law and facts and hence to be deleted. 4. That the assessee Is entitled to the valuation as on 1.4.1981 u/s 55(2)(b) as he is not a tenant and has submitted all the desired documents required for the purpose of computing LTCG at the time of assessment. 5. That the Ld AO has wrongly denied the deduction on account of brokerage to agents of Rs.2,00,000/- even after providing all the proofs like bills/bank statement/confirmations and the payments have been made after deduction of due TDS @10%.” 2. Briefly stated the facts necessary for adjudication of the controversy at hand are : from the return of income filed by the assessee for AY 2011-12 claiming total income of Rs.4,85,000/- after setting of its brought forward losses of Rs.1,15,480/- from AY 2005-06, Assessing Officer (AO) noticed that the assessee has sold his assets of Rs.60,05,000/- and computed the Long Term Capital Gain (LTCG) of Rs.6,00,480/- in respect of this transfer. Assessee taken cost of acquisition after indexation at Rs.52,04,520/- which the AO found incorrect. AO proceeded to hold that as per computation of assessee, the book value of the assets transferred during the year was Rs.25,139/- only and after indexation, the indexed value of the said assets could not exceed Rs.1,81,625/- having a difference of RS./50,22,895/- in the indexed cost of the acquisition. Consequently, assessment was reopened u/s 147 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (for short ‘the Act’). Declining the contentions raised by the assessee and in the absence of any supporting evidence for working out the cost of acquisition, AO made addition of Rs.52,22,895/-. AO also denied the deduction claimed by the assessee on account of brokerage of Rs.2,00,000/- to the agent and thereby assessed the total income of the assessee at Rs.57,13,020/- 3. Assessee carried the matter by way of an appeal before the ld. CIT (A) who has dismissed the appeal. Feeling aggrieved, the assessee has come up before the Tribunal by way of filing the present appeal. 4. We have heard the ld. Authorized Representatives of the parties to the appeal, gone through the documents relied upon and orders passed by the revenue authorities below in the light of the facts and circumstances of the case. GROUND NO.1 5. Ground No.1 is general in nature and does not require any specific adjudication. GROUNDS NO. 2, 3 & 4 6. Ld. AR for the assessee challenging the impugned order contented inter alia that since the assessee has acquired the land in question prior to 01.04.1981, he is entitled to opt for Fair Market Value (FMV) as on 01.04.1981 as per valuation of approved valuer; that as per valuation report, the value of the plot is Rs.7,32,000/- as on 01.04.1981 as per provisions contained u/s 55 (2)(b) but the AO has overlooked all these facts and denied the benefit of provisions contained u/s 55(2) of the Act; that the ld. CIT (A) has erred in denying the benefit of FMV to the assessee on the ground that the assessee was having only tenancy right in the land in question. 7. However, on the other hand, ld. DR for the Revenue relied upon the order passed by the AO as well as ld. CIT (A) and contended that the assessee has been rightly denied the benefit of FMV. 8. Undisputedly, assessee is holding the land in question by virtue of the registered lease deed dated 02.07.1977, available at pages 48 to 62 of the appeal file, for a period of 90 years in the industrial area Ghaziabad. It is also not in dispute that the assessee has opted for the valuation of the approved valuer in order to assess the FMV of the property in question as on 01.04.1981, which is valued at Rs.7,32,000/-. 9. In the backdrop of the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, arguments addressed by the ld. Authorized Representations of the parties to the appeal and case laws relied upon, the first question arises for determination in this case is :- “as to whether leasehold rights of the assessee for 90 years in the property in question are capital in nature or mere tenancy rights and that assessee is entitled for benefit of Fair Market Value (FMV) so as to compute the capital gains?” 10. When we examine covenants of the lease deed, available at pages 48 to 62 of the appeal file, it is proved on record inter alia :- (i) that assessee being a lessee has paid the provisional premium of Rs.22,575/- which can be enhanced by the lessor; (ii) that assessee has been made to bear the additional cost of electrification or development; (iii) that in case, the lessor is required to contribute towards any development or the provision of facilities benefiting the said industrial area as a whole, lessee shall pay such proportionate premium to the lessor as may be determined in this behalf by the lessor; (iv) that the lessor shall pay a sum of Rs.100/- per acre per annum as lease rent in order to maintain the area; (v) that the assessee shall discharge all the rates and taxes leviable on the property in question; (vi) that the provisional premium includes the average land cost component based on the cost of acquisition also under the Land Acquisition Act of the whole of the land; (vii) that the lessee is entitled to erect industrial unit on the land in question in accordance with the lay out plan etc.; (viii) that the assessee is entitled to mortgage, sublet, relinquish or assign his interest in the property in question or the building standing thereon with the previous consent in writing of the lessor; (ix) that the lessee can also mortgage to the financial institutions and scheduled banks who are entitled to sell the mortgaged property; (x) that the property in question can be inherited by the legal heirs and all the taxes are required to be paid by the lessee/ assessee; (xi) that the lessee shall be liable to reimburse all expenses which corporation/lessor may have incurred on the maintenance of roads, drains, power lines, lights, culverts, water supply lines and sewerage lines etc.; and (xii) that the registration charges of the lease deed have also been borne by the assessee. 11. All the aforesaid covenants inserted in the lease deed go to prove that the assessee is not having tenancy right rather he is having ownership of the land which can be mortgaged/sold by him and the property in question can be inherited by his legal heirs also. Moreover, substantial interest of the assessee has been created in the property in question. So, when the tenure of the lease is for 90 years it certainly creates ownership rights in favour of the assessee who is entitled to erect industrial unit on the same though with the prior permission of the lessor, namely, UP State Development Corporation Ltd. 12. Coordinate Bench of the Tribunal in case cited as Joint Commissioner Of Income Tax vs Mukund Ltd. 291 ITR 249 held that premium paid by the assessee for acquisition of the leasehold rights for 99 years in the land are capital in nature and as such the premium paid by the assessee could not be considered as advance payment of rent. 13. In the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case, property in question is to be treated as land and not tenancy rights. Since the word land has not been included in section 55(2)(a), fair market value is liable to compute the capital gain. 14. Coordinate Bench of the Tribunal in case cited as ITO vs. Shri Hari Om Gupta in ITA No.222/LKW/2013 order dated 11.04.2014 while deciding the identical issue wherein ld. CIT (A) has held leasehold right as not a capital asset so as to apply provisions contained u/s 55C of the Act and the said findings returned by the ld. CIT (A) has been set aside by the coordinate Bench of the Tribunal by holding lease right for the period of 99 years is also capital assets to which provisions of section 50C Are applicable. So, in view of what has been discussed above in the light of the decision discussed in preceding paras, we are of the considered view that the assessee’s leasehold rights for 90 years in the property in question are capital in nature and not tenancy rights and he is entitled for benefit of FMV. Accordingly, question framed is answered in affirmative. 15. Now, the next question arises for determination in this case is :- “as to whether value of the leasehold rights in the land in question of the assessee has to be determined by valuing fair market value of land as on 01.04.1981 and indexed cost of acquisition in order to extend long term capital gains in the hands of the assessee?” 16. Coordinate Bench of the Tribunal in case cited as M/s. Natraj vs. DCIT, Ahmedabad in ITA No.3063/Ahd/2010 order dated 04.01.2013 while deciding the identical issue, “as to how the value of leasehold right in the land in question of the assessee has to be determined in order to assess the long term capital gain” by returning the following findings:- “7. ……..We find that the provision of section 55(2)(a) shall apply in relation to the capital assets mentioned in Section 55(2)(a) of the Act only. The capital assets as mentioned in Section 55(2)(a) are exhaustive and all inclusive of capital assets, such as goodwill, trade mark brand name, right to manufacture, produce or process any article or thing or right to carry on any business, tenancy rights, stage carriage permits or loom hours, and being an exhaustive list of capital assets, any other capital asset such as land etc. could not be included for the purpose of valuation of “cost of acquisition” for sections 48 and 49 of the Act. It is well settled that when certain provision of law has clear language and leaves no room for ambiguity, there should be no violence to the provision as enacted by the Legislature and no words should be added or omitted while reading a specific provision of law. We find that the Legislature has intentionally not added word “land” in the provision of Section 55(2(a) of the Act, and therefore, the provision of section 55(2)(a)(ii) of the Act would not be applicable while valuing the “cost of acquisition” of the land for the purpose of computation of “long term capital gain” of the assessee. Accordingly, we hold that the value of the lease-hold rights in the land in question of the assessee, has to be determined in accordance with the provision of section 48 of the Act by valuing “fair market value” of the land as on 1.4.1981 and the index cost of acquisition has to be determined in order to assess long term capital gains in the hands of the assessee.” 17. When it is established that the property in question was acquired by the assessee firm on 02.07.1977 as per registered lease deed for the period of 90 years i.e. prior to 01.04.1981 assessee is entitled for benefit of valuing the property in question on the basis of fair market value as on 01.04.1981 and the cost of acquisition is not to be taken into account for computing the capital gain particularly when the assessee has opted for use the fair market value. So, the second question framed is also answered in affirmative in favour of the assessee. 18. In view of what has been discussed above, we are of the considered view that in view of the findings returned in the preceding paras, assessee’s leasehold right for a period of 90 years in question is a capital asset and not tenancy rights to which provisions contained u/s 50C are applicable and assessee is entitled for benefit of fair market value as on 01.04.1981 in order to compute the capital gain. So, the findings returned by the ld. CIT (A) are hereby reversed and the AO is directed to compute the capital gain accordingly. Grounds No.2, 3 & 4 are determined in favour of the assessee. GROUND NO.5 19. AO has not granted benefit of deduction claimed by the assessee on account of brokerage paid to the agents to the tune of Rs.2,00,000/- on the ground that no evidence has been produced regarding the alleged expenses made on transfer/brokerage etc. 20. The ld. AR for the assessee challenging the impugned finding contended that he has made payment of brokerage through banking channel after duly deducting the TDS. Ld. AR for the assessee also contended that payment on account of brokerage has been made to the agents after getting permission from UPSIDC for transfer and has also brought on record PAN and ITR of the payee for the relevant period along with bank statement. In these circumstances, AO is directed to decide the issue afresh after taking into account the evidence brought on record after providing adequate opportunity of being heard to the assessee. Ground No.5 is determined in favour of the assessee for statistical purposes. 21. Resultantly, the appeal filed by the assessee is allowed for statistical purposes. Order pronounced in open court on this 22nd day of July, 2019. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under ITAT JudgmentsSection 147section 48section 50C Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,036 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Counter Sale of Cooked Food Not Outdoor Catering Service: CESTAT Mumbai October 6, 2026 Review Cannot Reopen Foreign Award Issues Already Decided: Supreme Court October 5, 2026 Government Special Package to Workmen Exempt u/s 10(10B); No TDS on Compensation: Madras HC October 5, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Government Special Package to Workmen Exempt u/s 10(10B); No TDS on Compensation: Madras HC October 5, 2026 Section 234E Late Fee Applies Even Before June 2015: Madras HC October 5, 2026 Section 263 Revision Invalid Where AO Made Detailed Enquiry & Adopted Permissible View: ITAT Pune October 5, 2026 Interest From Cooperative Banks Eligible for Section 80P(2)(d) Deduction: ITAT Pune October 5, 2026 ₹473.71 Crore Addition Cannot Rest Only on Definition of Income Without Charging Provision: ITAT Delhi October 5, 2026 Section 12AB Registration Cannot Be Made Conditional on Future SC Ruling: ITAT Mumbai October 5, 2026