Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12894 Case Name JCIT Vs Experion Developers Pvt Ltd (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); JCIT Vs Experion Developers Pvt Ltd (Supreme Court of India) Delhi High Court Ruling on TDS on External Development Charges The controversy concerned the liability of real-estate developers to deduct tax at source (TDS) on External Development Charges (EDC) paid to the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA). In the Delhi High Court proceedings, the petitioners challenged orders passed under Sections 201(1) and 201(1A) of the Income-tax Act, 1961, whereby the Assessing Officer had treated EDC payments as attracting TDS. The lead matter was DLF Homes Panchkula Pvt. Ltd. v. JCIT (OSD), with the connected petitions involving materially similar orders. The petitioners were real-estate developers who had entered into agreements with the State Government of Haryana through the Director General, Town & Country Planning, under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 and the Rules framed thereunder. Payment of proportionate development charges was one of the requirements associated with obtaining licences for development projects. The petitioners contended that EDC represented statutory development charges and not consideration for services, rent or a contractual arrangement attracting TDS. The Assessing Officer nevertheless treated EDC as “rent” and invoked Section 194-I, quantifying substantial demands under Sections 201(1) and 201(1A). Before the High Court, the Revenue conceded that Section 194-I was not applicable and that EDC could not be characterised as rent, but argued that the matter should nevertheless be remanded because the correct provision could be Section 194C. The Delhi High Court rejected that approach. It held that the Assessing Officer had not merely mentioned an incorrect statutory provision: he had specifically examined the nature of EDC and concluded that it constituted rent, applying Section 194-I and the corresponding 10% rate. The nature of the payment was therefore fundamental to the determination of the TDS obligation. The Revenue could not subsequently substitute an entirely different statutory basis and seek a remand. The Court also relied upon its earlier decision in BPTP Ltd. v. Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central)-4, where the fundamental premise that EDC payments attracted TDS had similarly been found unsustainable. The Court distinguished the Supreme Court’s decision concerning annual lease rent because the EDC payments in the present matter did not arise from an arrangement for use of land. The principle that a statutory order must stand or fall on the reasons recorded by the authority was also reinforced by reference to Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner. Accordingly, the Delhi High Court set aside the impugned orders raising demands under Sections 201(1) and 201(1A), allowed the lead petition and consequently allowed the connected petitions. The ruling therefore rejected the Revenue’s attempt to sustain the TDS demands by changing the statutory foundation from Section 194-I to Section 194C. Supreme Court Challenge and Final Ruling The Revenue carried the matter to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court order records that the delay was condoned and that the Court followed its earlier order in Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central III) & Anr. v. BPTP Limited, dated 16.12.2020. The Court also followed its order in Joint Commissioner of Income Tax v. M/s Experion Developers Pvt. Ltd., dated 12.02.2024. On that basis, the special leave petitions were dismissed. Pending applications, if any, were also disposed of. Thus, the Supreme Court did not disturb the result reached in the Delhi High Court proceedings. The High Court’s setting aside of the TDS demands under Sections 201(1) and 201(1A), founded on the Assessing Officer’s treatment of EDC as “rent” under Section 194-I, consequently remained undisturbed. The Supreme Court order was a concise dismissal following its earlier orders rather than a fresh detailed examination of the statutory character of EDC. The Delhi High Court ruling is therefore significant for the specific controversy addressed in the supplied judgment: once the Assessing Officer had proceeded on the substantive finding that EDC was rent and had applied Section 194-I, the Revenue could not, after conceding that foundation to be erroneous, replace it with Section 194C and seek a fresh determination. Effect of the Supreme Court Order The combined effect of the two proceedings is that the Delhi High Court’s orders setting aside the impugned TDS demands were not overturned by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court dismissed the Revenue’s challenge by following its earlier orders in BPTP Limited and Experion Developers Pvt. Ltd.. The supplied Supreme Court order therefore leaves the High Court’s ruling intact in the proceedings concerning the EDC demands challenged before it. The material judicial authorities referred to in the High Court judgment include BPTP Ltd. v. Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central)-4, the Supreme Court decision concerning “rent” under Section 194-I in the context of lease payments, and Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner. Cases Discussed Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central III) & Anr. Vs BPTP Limited, order dated 16.12.2020 BPTP Ltd. Vs Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central)-4, 2019 SCC OnLine Del 12358 Mohinder Singh Gill Vs Chief Election Commissioner, [1978] 1 SCC 405 Read Delhi HC Order in this case: Delhi HC Sets Aside TDS Demands on External Development Charges Paid to HUDA FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER Delay condoned. Following the order of this Court in Principal Commissioner Of Income Tax (CENTRAL III) & ANR. vs. BPTP Limited dated 16.12.2020 passed in Special Leave Petition (Civil) Diary No.19436/2020, these special leave petitions are also dismissed. Pending application(s), if any, shall also stand disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Section 194Csection 194Isupreme court judgementsTDS Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,794 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Service Tax Demand Quashed for Indian Red Cross Society: CESTAT Chandigarh September 10, 2026 GST Section 129 Penalty Quashed Without Tax Evasion Intention: Allahabad HC September 10, 2026 GST Section 129 Penalty Quashed for Technical E-Way Bill Error: Allahabad HC September 10, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Karnataka HC Quashes Section 153C Notices Based on Loose Sheets and Diaries September 10, 2026 Penny Stock Label Alone Cannot Convert Exempt LTCG Into Section 68 Addition: Delhi ITAT September 10, 2026 Rent Paid to Earn Subletting Income Deductible Under Section 57: ITAT Delhi September 10, 2026 Section 87A Rebate Covers Section 111A Gains for AY 2025-26: ITAT Delhi September 10, 2026 Wife’s Jewellery Found at Common Residence Cannot Be Added to Husband: Nagpur ITAT September 10, 2026 Investigation Report Alone Cannot Sustain ₹2 Crore Section 68 Addition: ITAT Mumbai September 10, 2026