Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Coforge Limited, a prominent player in AI-native engineering services, has announced the introduction of its intent engineering framework. This new methodology aims to assist enterprises in developing AI systems that are closely aligned with business outcomes, governance requirements, and operational realities. The announcement was made on 5th October 2026, highlighting the company’s commitment to enhancing the efficacy of AI agents in enterprise environments. As businesses increasingly integrate autonomous AI agents into their operations, the risk of misaligned decisions becomes a significant concern. Coforge’s intent engineering framework addresses this challenge by providing a structured approach to defining an AI agent’s purpose, boundaries, success metrics, and governance controls. This approach ensures that AI systems are not only efficient but also aligned with the strategic objectives of the business. Vic Gupta, Executive Vice President of Coforge, emphasised the importance of this development, stating that while enterprises have focused on teaching AI systems what to say and know, the real challenge lies in determining what these systems should optimise for in complex scenarios. The intent engineering framework is designed to establish a governance structure that guides AI decision-making, ensuring that autonomous operations translate into measurable business value rather than merely increased activity. The introduction of this framework reflects Coforge’s extensive experience in executing enterprise AI programmes. By prioritising governance, quality, accountability, and business impact, the framework shifts the focus from traditional performance metrics to outcome-based design principles. This strategic shift is expected to facilitate enterprise-scale AI adoption, enabling businesses to achieve lower operating costs, faster cycle times, and sustained margin growth. Market analysts view Coforge’s initiative as a significant step towards addressing the complexities of AI integration in business processes. As enterprises continue to explore the potential of AI, frameworks like Coforge’s intent engineering are likely to play a crucial role in ensuring that AI systems deliver tangible and strategic benefits. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business DLF achieves complete sell-out of The Aureva with sales nearing ₹1985 crore October 4, 2026 Aurobindo Pharma secures USFDA approval for Perampanel tablets in multiple strengths October 3, 2026 Jaguar Land Rover reports robust sales growth in Q2 FY27 October 3, 2026 Bombay High Court reinstates de-registration and promoter change for Mahalaxmi project October 1, 2026 Hero MotoCorp reports 12% increase in September dispatches ahead of festive season October 1, 2026 Coal India increases coal supplies by 12.5% in September amid rising demand October 1, 2026