Circular Department: Listing Circular Ref. No: NSE/CML/2022/32 Date: July 04, 2022 To, All Listed Entities Sub: Advisory under Regulation 46 and 62 of SEBI (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 2015 Dear Sir/Madam, This is with reference to Regulation 46 and Regulation 62 of Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulation, 2015 (“Listing Regulation”), the listed entities are required to maintain a functional website containing basic information about the Company. As per the direction by SEBI, all the listed entities are requested to disseminate certain requirements mentioned in sub-regulation 2 of Regulation 46 and sub- regulation 1 of Regulation 62 of Listing Regulation for equity and debt listed entities, respectively, under a separate section on its website. It has been observed that the requisite disclosures under the aforesaid regulations have been majorly done by the listed entities, but at times, it is cumbersome to locate these disclosures as same are not located in one place along with proper indexing. It has also been observed that the listed entities do not disclose the last amended date of policies uploaded on the website. In view of the above, the listed entities are advised to: a. Disseminate all disclosures, specified under Regulation 46 and Regulation 62 of Listing Regulations, under a separate section as mentioned below: i. Home>Investors>Disclosures under Regulation 46 of the LODR> and details of requirements mentioned in sub-regulation 2 of Regulation 46 of Listing Regulation. ii. Home>Investors>Disclosures under Regulation 62 of the LODR> and details of requirements mentioned in sub-regulation 1 of Regulation 62 of Listing Regulation. b. Website needs to be updated with effective date or last amended date of the policies uploaded on the website. All listed entities are therefore advised to take necessary steps to be in compliance with the provisions of this Circular. For and on behalf of National Stock Exchange of India Limited Ravi Shekhar Rai Manager- Listing Compliance