Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The procedure for conducting a Board Meeting is governed by Section 173 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 and the Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. The process begins with pre-meeting planning, including fixing the meeting date within the prescribed interval, finalising agenda items, issuing at least seven days’ notice to directors and circulating agenda notes, supporting documents and draft resolutions. Where directors participate through Video Conferencing or Other Audio-Visual Means, appropriate technical and compliance arrangements must also be made. During the meeting, the Chairman is elected where necessary, quorum is ascertained, agenda items are taken up for noting or approval, resolutions are formally considered and directors vote on them. The minutes record proceedings, deliberations and directors’ assent or dissent. Interested directors must disclose their interest and refrain from participating in the relevant discussion or voting, with appropriate arrangements where the Chairman is interested. Post-meeting compliance includes preparation and circulation of draft minutes within fifteen days, allowing directors seven days for comments, finalisation and signing or digital authentication of minutes, and circulation of signed minutes. The provisions apply to private companies subject to the stated exceptions and relaxed meeting requirements for specified companies. Procedure for Conducting Board Meeting and Procedure for 165 Passing of Board Resolution by Physical Presence and Minutes of Board Meeting under Companies Act, 2013 GOVERNING PROVISIONS: Section 173 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 and the Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. 1. PROCEDURE: Sr. No STEPS 1. Pre-Board Meeting Planning and Compliance: Fixing the Date of Board Meeting Ensure that the Board Meeting is scheduled within 120 days from the previous meeting, in compliance with statutory requirements. Finalize the agenda items and prepare the draft notice. Issuance of Notice Send thenotice of Board Meetingto all directors (and invitees, if any) at least 7 days prior to the meeting: √ In writing √ By hand delivery / post / electronic mode Circulation of Agenda & Notes Share the following with directors and invitees: √ Agenda of the meeting √ Notes to agenda √ Supporting documents / annexures √ Draft resolutions These may be sent along with the notice or separately. Logistical Arrangements Make necessary arrangements for: √ Travel and accommodation of directors / invitees (if required) √ Meeting venue readiness Video Conferencing (VC) Arrangements If any director intends to participate through Video Conferencing (VC) or Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM): √ Arrange proper technical setup √ Ensure compliance with prescribed standards √ Test connectivity prior to meeting 2. Board Meeting Proceedings: Election of Chairman In case the company does not have a designated Chairman, the directors present shall elect one among themselves to chair the meeting. Ascertainment of Quorum The Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary (if any), shall verify the presence of quorum. -Upon confirmation, the meeting is declared duly constituted. Conduct of Meeting The Chairman and/or Company Secretary shall conduct the proceedings strictly as per the agenda circulated in advance. Items for Noting Agenda items requiring information/ noting shall be placed before the Board for taking on record. · Items for Approval Agenda items requiring discussion and decision shall be presented for deliberation by the Board. Placing of Resolution After discussion, the proposed resolution shall be formally placed before the Board for consideration. Voting on Resolution Directors shall cast their votes in favour or against the resolution. The resolution is considered passed upon requisite majority. Recording of Minutes The proceedings of the meeting shall be recorded in the minutes, including: √ Key deliberations √ Views expressed √ Assent or dissent of directors Disclosure of Interest If any director is interested in an agenda item: √ Must disclose interest √ Shall not participate in discussion or voting √ May be requested to leave the meeting If Chairman is Interested √ The Chair shall be handed over to a disinterested director √ Such change and disclosure shall be recorded in minutes 3. Post-Meeting Compliance and Documentation” The minutes of the meeting shall contain, inter alia, the following particulars: (i) serial number of the meeting; (ii) date and time of the meeting; (iii) venue of the meeting; (iv) names of the Directors and invitees who attended the meeting; and (v) such other details as may be required under Secretarial Standard‑1. The draft minutes shall be circulated to all the Directors, including those who did not attend the meeting, within fifteen days from the conclusion of the meeting for their comments. The Directors shall be provided a period of seven days from the date of circulation to communicate their comments, if any. Upon finalization, the minutes shall be printed, entered in the Minutes Book, and signed by the Chairman of the meeting in case the Company maintains the minutes in physical form. In the event that the Company maintains the minutes in electronic form, the minutes shall be digitally signed to affix a time stamp and authenticate the record. Once the minutes are duly signed, a copy of the signed minutes shall be circulated to all the Directors within 15 days of signing, unless the Board has granted a waiver for such circulation in accordance with the provisions of Secretarial Standard‑1. 2. STEPS NOT APPLICABLE TO PRIVATE COMPANIES: The provisions ofSection 173 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Rules and Secretarial Standard 1 apply to all companies, including private companies, except a One Person Company having only one Director. Private companies classified assmall companiesare required to hold at least two Board Meetings in each half of a calendar year, with a minimum gap of 90 days between meetings. **This document is for educational purposes only and does not constitute legal advice. ***** Author: Ms. Kathanshi Jain Article Assistant at M/s Ronak Jhuthawat & Co, Practicing Company secretary Call: +91 98874 22212 | Email: [email protected] Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013 Author Info Name: Dr. CS RONAK JHUTHAWAT Qualification: CS Company: Ronak Jhuthawat &; Co. Location: Udaipur, Rajasthan Articles Published: 47 View full profile → More from Dr. CS RONAK JHUTHAWAT OPC Financial Statement Filing 2026: Pre-Filing Checklist September 25, 2026 Beyond Listing Bell: What Directors and KMPs Must Know About PIT Compliance September 19, 2026 Procedure For Adjudication of Penalties Under Companies Act, 2013 September 12, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law MCA Cautions Public Against High-Return Promises by Non-Compliant Nidhi Companies September 24, 2026 ICAI Announces CA Foundation and Intermediate January 2027 Examination Schedule September 24, 2026 Mudra Denim Ordered Into Liquidation After 99.89% CoC Approval: NCLT Mumbai September 24, 2026 Can a Board Meeting and General Meeting Be Held on the Same Day? September 24, 2026 Managing Director Criminal Liability Depends on Statutory & Personal Involvement September 23, 2026 MCA Extends Tenure of Eight NCLAT Members for Five Years September 23, 2026