Summary: India’s introduction of exchange-traded rainfall derivatives marks the financialisation of weather as a measurable market risk and raises regulatory questions that extend beyond the legal recognition of derivatives. While India’s existing commodity-derivatives framework under the SCRA and SEBI provides the necessary legal foundation, rainfall-based products require specialised safeguards concerning index methodology, settlement-data integrity, geographical basis risk, data failures and liquidity. The United States offers valuable experience in converting environmental variables into standardised exchange-traded derivatives through precise index construction, contract specifications and settlement governance. However, its predominantly temperature-based HDD and CDD products, institutional architecture and market conditions cannot simply be replicated in India. The appropriate approach is selective regulatory transplantation: India should retain its SEBI-led commodity-derivatives framework while adopting principles such as transparent index methodology, authoritative settlement-data sources, predetermined fallback mechanisms, basis-risk disclosure, auditable settlement records and liquidity monitoring. Regulation should ultimately ensure that the entire pathway from rainfall to measurement, index, settlement and payment is transparent, reproducible and legally certain. What India Can Learn from the United States and Why Regulatory Transplantation Must Be Selective Table of Contents▸ I. Introduction: India's New Weather-Derivatives Market II. Weather Derivatives and Their Regulatory Character III. India's Existing Regulatory Architecture From the FCRA to SEBI The SCRA Framework SEBI's Experience with Index-Based Products Prior Recognition of Weather Derivatives IV. Why Weather Derivatives Create Distinctive Regulatory Risks The Underlying Is Non-Tradable Index Integrity Geographical Basis Risk Settlement-Data Integrity Liquidity and Market Manipulation V. The United States: A Comparative Regulatory Experience The US Experience The Comparability Limitation Contract Design as the Core Lesson Settlement Governance Identifying the Data Source VI. What Can India Learn from the US Model? Detailed Index Methodology Identification of the Settlement Data Source Predetermined Data-Failure Mechanisms Basis-Risk Disclosure VII. What Should Not Be Transplanted into India? US Institutional Architecture US Market Depth Direct Replication of Temperature Methodology VIII. Practical Best-Case Scenarios for India Scenario 1: Data Failure or Revision Scenario 2: Geographic Mismatch Scenario 3: Thin Liquidity IX. A Proposed Indian Regulatory Framework 1. Weather-Index Governance 2. Data-Source Governance 3. Mandatory Data-Failure and Fallback Provisions 4. Express Basis-Risk Disclosure 5. Settlement-Data Audit Trail 6. Liquidity and Concentration Monitoring X. The Practitioner's Perspective XI. Conclusion Show all 41 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); I. Introduction: India’s New Weather-Derivatives Market Weather is an increasingly significant financial variable for businesses exposed to agriculture, energy, logistics, construction, aviation, tourism and retail. Variations in rainfall and temperature can affect revenues, costs, demand and capacity utilisation. Weather derivatives address this exposure by providing a financial payoff determined by a predefined weather variable rather than by proof of physical loss. India’s move into this market is significant because it converts a non-tradable environmental variable into an exchange-traded financial exposure. NCDEX introduced RAINMUMBAI as India’s first exchange-traded weather futures product and subsequently introduced RAINCHNNAI, linked to Chennai’s Northeast Monsoon exposure. These contracts are financially settled on the basis of specified rainfall measurements and methodologies. The regulatory question therefore goes beyond whether rainfall can constitute an underlying for a derivative. The more difficult question is: What happens when the integrity of the financial product depends upon the integrity of the system measuring the underlying event? Rainfall cannot be stored, delivered or traded in a conventional spot market. Its financialisation consequently depends upon methodological choices concerning the reference location, observation period, measurement system, historical benchmark, data source and settlement calculation. The measurement system effectively becomes part of the financial product. This article argues that India’s existing commodity-derivatives framework provides the necessary legal foundation for weather derivatives, but that such products require additional safeguards concerning index integrity, geographical basis risk and settlement-data governance. It further examines the United States as a comparative jurisdiction and argues that India should adopt selective regulatory transplantation: borrowing regulatory principles from the US experience without replicating its institutional structure or market conditions. II. Weather Derivatives and Their Regulatory Character Weather derivatives are financial instruments whose payoff depends upon a specified weather variable, such as temperature, rainfall or snowfall. Their principal economic function is hedging. A business whose revenues or costs are adversely affected by a particular weather outcome may take a derivative position designed to generate a corresponding financial payoff. This distinguishes weather derivatives from conventional insurance. In an insurance arrangement, payment generally depends upon an insured event and the contractual assessment of loss. A weather derivative, by contrast, settles according to the specified weather index. NCDEX’s rainfall products do not require proof of physical damage or a declaration of disaster for settlement. The distinction is important because the absence of a conventional physical commodity does not prevent an instrument from being a derivative. The regulatory difficulty lies elsewhere. In a conventional commodity future, the underlying commodity has an existence independent of the derivative contract and may have a physical spot market. In a weather derivative, there may be no conventional spot market against which the derivative can converge. The contract therefore substitutes a predetermined measurement methodology for a conventional physical reference market. Accordingly, index governance becomes central to product integrity. III. India’s Existing Regulatory Architecture From the FCRA to SEBI India’s commodity-derivatives market was historically regulated under the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1952 and supervised by the Forward Markets Commission. The Finance Act, 2015 repealed the FCRA and transferred regulation of commodity derivatives to SEBI. Weather derivatives therefore emerge within an existing securities and commodity-derivatives architecture rather than in a regulatory vacuum. The SCRA Framework Section 2(ac) of the SCRA provides the statutory framework for derivatives, while Section 18A establishes the enforceability of specified exchange-traded derivatives when traded in accordance with the statutory and regulatory framework. The significance is that the novelty of the underlying does not necessarily require a new statute. The relevant question is whether the product can be accommodated within the existing framework and whether its distinctive risks can be addressed through product-specific regulation. SEBI’s Experience with Index-Based Products SEBI’s commodity-index framework provides a useful starting point. The framework requires, among other matters, attention to index methodology, susceptibility to manipulation and disclosure of index-design parameters. Although a rainfall index differs fundamentally from a basket of tradable commodities, the underlying regulatory principle is transferable: Where the value of a derivative depends upon an index, the methodology by which that index is constructed must itself be capable of scrutiny. This provides a basis for developing weather-index regulation without creating a separate statutory regime. Prior Recognition of Weather Derivatives The policy idea is also not entirely new. SEBI’s 2019 consultation on commodity indices contemplated weather derivatives as a possible later-stage product, while the 2020 Expert Committee on Integration of Commodity Spot and Derivatives Markets recommended permitting agri-index derivatives, including weather indices, and recognised the possibility of cash settlement. The emergence of rainfall derivatives is therefore an evolution of India’s existing commodity-derivatives policy rather than a complete regulatory departure. IV. Why Weather Derivatives Create Distinctive Regulatory Risks The novelty of weather derivatives lies not simply in the involvement of weather, but in the relationship between measurement, geography, methodology and settlement. The Underlying Is Non-Tradable Rainfall cannot be purchased, stored or physically delivered. Nor is there a conventional spot market against which a rainfall derivative can straightforwardly converge. Consequently, the contract must define its underlying with precision: Which station is authoritative? What observation period applies? What constitutes the relevant measurement? Which historical benchmark is used? How are deviations calculated? What happens if the source data are corrected? These are financial questions disguised as technical questions because the answers determine the parties’ contractual rights. NCDEX’s methodology illustrates the point. Its rainfall products use specified meteorological observations and historical rainfall benchmarks, including a Long Period Average and cumulative deviation methodology. Index Integrity A weather derivative can be represented as: physical event → measurement → index → settlement. A weakness at any stage can affect the financial outcome. The regulatory concern is therefore not whether rainfall itself can be manipulated, but whether the information infrastructure through which rainfall becomes financially measurable is sufficiently robust against error, ambiguity, disruption or manipulation. Geographical Basis Risk Weather is inherently local. Rainfall at a designated reference station may differ substantially from rainfall experienced by a business located elsewhere. A derivative can therefore produce a perfectly correct contractual settlement while providing an imperfect economic hedge. This is geographical basis risk. It should not necessarily be treated as a product defect. Instead, contract documentation should expressly identify the reference location and warn participants that actual weather at their location may diverge from the settlement index. The appropriate regulatory response is therefore transparent disclosure rather than a promise of perfect correlation. Settlement-Data Integrity Settlement-data integrity presents a separate risk. A reference station may become unavailable; an observation may be corrected; data may be delayed; an instrument may malfunction; or multiple authorised sources may produce inconsistent readings. Weather contracts should therefore identify in advance: 1. the primary data source; 2. the authoritative observation; 3. the calculation agent; 4. the publication timetable; 5. procedures for missing or erroneous data; 6. treatment of subsequent revisions; 7. fallback sources, where appropriate; and 8. the finality of the settlement determination. The objective is not to eliminate uncertainty, but to prevent parties from discovering the rules only after the uncertainty occurs. Liquidity and Market Manipulation Weather derivatives may also face structural liquidity constraints. The CFTC’s Subcommittee on Climate-Related Market Risk has noted the historical difficulty of developing liquidity in exchange-traded weather derivatives. For India, this means that market development should be accompanied by monitoring of spreads, open interest, concentration and trading activity. Liquidity should be treated as part of market design rather than as an issue to be addressed only after problems arise. V. The United States: A Comparative Regulatory Experience The US Experience The United States provides one of the earliest examples of exchange-traded weather derivatives. In 1999, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange received CFTC approval for standardised weather futures based on weather indices for ten US cities. The original contracts were based on accumulated heating degree days (HDD) and cooling degree days (CDD). The significance of the US experience is therefore not merely that weather derivatives were permitted. It is that a non-traditional environmental variable was converted into a standardised exchange-traded derivative through precise index construction and contract specification. CME’s weather products continue to demonstrate this approach through defined temperature indices, contract units, price conventions, settlement provisions and termination rules. The Comparability Limitation The US experience cannot, however, be treated as a direct analogue of India’s rainfall derivatives. The principal US exchange-traded weather experience has historically centred on temperature-based HDD and CDD products, whereas India’s emerging contracts are rainfall-based. This distinction matters. Temperature indices have relatively standardised mathematical constructions, whereas rainfall may present greater spatial and measurement variability and greater dependence on specific meteorological stations. Therefore, the United States provides a benchmark for regulating weather-index derivatives, but not a ready-made regulatory template for Indian rainfall futures. Contract Design as the Core Lesson The principal lesson from CME’s weather products is the importance of treating the index as part of the contract itself. The contract should clearly identify: the weather variable; the reference location; the observation period; the calculation methodology; the settlement value; and the procedure for determining the final value. This level of specificity is particularly important where the index, rather than a physical commodity, determines the economic value of the derivative. Settlement Governance The broader CFTC framework also demonstrates the importance of reliable settlement-price information and clearly defined methodologies for cash-settled contracts. For weather derivatives, the relevant question is: Is the weather data series used for settlement sufficiently defined, reliable, timely and resistant to ambiguity to serve as the financial reference point for the contract? This question should be answered at the contract-design stage rather than through ad hoc decisions after a settlement dispute. Identifying the Data Source Recent US regulatory filings concerning weather-event contracts further demonstrate the importance of identifying the relevant event, location, time period, source agency, payout criterion and settlement procedure. Although such event contracts should not be equated with India’s rainfall futures, they reinforce a broader principle: The contract should define the evidentiary pathway from the real-world event to the financial payout. VI. What Can India Learn from the US Model? The relevant question is not whether India should copy the United States. It is: Which regulatory principles have sufficient functional similarity to be transplanted into India’s SEBI-NCDEX-IMD framework? The answer is selective transplantation. Regulatory issue United States India Appropriate Indian approach Primary regulator CFTC SEBI Retain SEBI Exchange infrastructure Regulated derivatives exchanges/DCMs Recognised commodity-derivatives exchanges Retain existing structure Weather products Predominantly temperature-index products Emerging rainfall-index products Product-specific methodology Underlying data Defined weather observations/indexes Meteorological observations Identify authoritative source Index methodology Contract-specific CDR/LPA methodology Mandatory methodology disclosure Settlement Financial/index-based Financial/index-based Retain cash settlement Geographic risk Location-specific Significant for rainfall Basis-risk disclosure Data failure Contract-specific procedures Requires clearer treatment Mandatory fallback hierarchy Liquidity Historically difficult Emerging market Liquidity and concentration monitoring Regulatory philosophy Existing derivatives framework + product rules Existing commodity framework Existing framework + weather-specific layer Detailed Index Methodology Every weather derivative should disclose its methodology in sufficient detail for an informed participant to understand and independently verify the settlement calculation. This should include: reference location and station; observation period; measurement unit; historical benchmark; calculation formula; treatment of cumulative deviations; rounding conventions; publication schedule; and final settlement calculation. Identification of the Settlement Data Source The contract should distinguish between reference data used for market information and authoritative data used for settlement. This distinction is already visible in NCDEX’s Chennai product architecture. NCDEX states that rainfall information displayed from IMD Automatic Weather Stations is provided for reference and is not used for RAINCHNNAI spot calculation. A practitioner should therefore be able to answer immediately: Which exact data series determines my contractual liability? That answer should not depend upon inference from a trading screen or secondary data feed. Predetermined Data-Failure Mechanisms India should adopt a mandatory hierarchy for data disruption: Primary source → designated alternative source → predefined estimation methodology → exchange determination under prescribed criteria. Contract specifications should address station failure, missing observations, delayed publication, instrument malfunction, contradictory readings, data correction, retrospective revision and permanent discontinuation of a reference station. The objective is finality through predetermined rules. Basis-Risk Disclosure Weather exposure is geographically defined. Indian weather derivatives should therefore expressly disclose the possibility that rainfall at the reference station may differ materially from rainfall experienced at the participant’s actual location. This would improve informed participation without unnecessarily restricting the product. VII. What Should Not Be Transplanted into India? US Institutional Architecture India should not attempt to reproduce the CFTC’s institutional structure. US has a different statutory framework, market architecture, exchange structure and participant base. India already has an established regulator and commodity-derivatives framework through SEBI. A separate weather-derivatives regulator would therefore add institutional complexity without addressing the principal product risks. US Market Depth The existence of a mature US weather-derivatives market does not mean equivalent liquidity will automatically develop in India. Weather derivatives have historically experienced liquidity challenges even in the US. India must therefore adapt market-development mechanisms to its own participant base rather than assume that market depth can be imported through regulation. Direct Replication of Temperature Methodology India should not transplant HDD/CDD methodology into rainfall contracts. The US experience demonstrates how to govern an index, not which index India should use. Thus: Regulatory transplantation should occur at the level of principles, not institutional form or mathematical methodology. VIII. Practical Best-Case Scenarios for India A useful regulatory framework should anticipate what happens when the measurement or market infrastructure does not operate as expected. Scenario 1: Data Failure or Revision Assume a designated rainfall station becomes unavailable or a recorded observation is subsequently revised. A robust contract should already specify: 1. the alternative source or station; 2. the conditions triggering substitution; 3. the applicable adjustment methodology; and 4. the cut-off date for revisions. The objective is to ensure that settlement does not depend upon an improvised decision after the event. Scenario 2: Geographic Mismatch A business in one part of Chennai experiences extreme rainfall while the designated reference station records comparatively normal rainfall. The derivative nevertheless settles according to the contractual reference station. This is not necessarily a settlement failure. It is basis risk. The appropriate regulatory response is to ensure that the geographic limitation was clearly disclosed when the derivative was entered into. Scenario 3: Thin Liquidity Suppose only a small number of participants trade a contract despite significant underlying economic exposure. The exchange and regulator should monitor: open interest; concentration; bid-ask spreads; position limits; market-maker participation; and unusual price movements. The policy objective should be market quality, rather than merely increasing the number of participants. IX. A Proposed Indian Regulatory Framework India does not require a separate Weather Derivatives Act. It requires a specialised regulatory layer within the existing commodity-derivatives framework. 1. Weather-Index Governance Every exchange-listed weather derivative should have a formally documented methodology identifying the weather variable, reference location, measurement station, observation window, historical benchmark, calculation formula, rounding conventions and settlement methodology. The methodology should be publicly available before trading begins. 2. Data-Source Governance Where an external agency such as the IMD supplies the underlying observation, the contractual documentation should identify: the relevant station; the precise dataset; publication timing; responsibility for data transmission; treatment of revised observations; and the legal status of the exchange’s final settlement determination. 3. Mandatory Data-Failure and Fallback Provisions Weather contracts should contain express provisions dealing with station failure, missing data, instrument malfunction, delayed publication, conflicting observations, data revision, station discontinuation and other disruptions affecting the measurement system. These provisions may be standardised at the regulatory level while allowing exchanges to tailor them to individual products. 4. Express Basis-Risk Disclosure Contract specifications should identify the reference location, geographic limitations and possibility of divergence between actual local weather and the settlement measurement. 5. Settlement-Data Audit Trail Exchanges should consider preserving an auditable record of: original observations; data received from the source agency; corrections; calculations; adjustments; publication timestamps; and final settlement determination. This would strengthen dispute resolution and regulatory oversight by establishing a clear evidentiary chain between the meteorological observation and the financial settlement. 6. Liquidity and Concentration Monitoring Given the historical liquidity challenges associated with weather derivatives, exchanges and regulators should monitor market concentration and liquidity indicators from the early stages of product development. Liquidity-enhancement mechanisms may be useful, but they should complement rather than replace genuine commercial demand. X. The Practitioner’s Perspective For lawyers advising exchanges, commodity brokers, corporates, financial institutions or weather-sensitive businesses, weather derivatives create a new category of contractual due diligence. The relevant questions should include: What exactly is the underlying? = Is it rainfall, temperature, cumulative deviation, a weather event or another constructed index? Who controls the measurement? = Is the data generated by the exchange, IMD, an independent agency or another source? Which observation actually determines payment? = A publicly displayed weather feed may not necessarily be the settlement source. What happens when the data are unavailable? = The fallback methodology should be reviewed before execution. What happens if the data are revised? = The contract’s correction and finality provisions should be examined. How geographically correlated is the index to the client’s exposure? = A client may be economically exposed in one location while the derivative settles according to observations from another. Is the derivative actually hedging the client’s economic risk? = A legally valid derivative may nevertheless provide an imperfect hedge. What evidence exists if settlement is challenged? = The exchange’s methodology, source data, timestamps and calculation records may become crucial. These questions demonstrate why weather derivatives should be viewed as contract-design problems as much as trading products. For practitioners, the weather-index methodology and settlement rulebook may be as important as the broader disclosure documentation. XI. Conclusion India’s introduction of exchange-traded rainfall derivatives represents more than the addition of another commodity product. It marks the financialisation of a previously non-tradable environmental variable. The existing Indian regulatory framework is capable of accommodating this development. The SCRA provides the statutory foundation for exchange-traded derivatives; SEBI regulates commodity derivatives; its commodity-index framework provides experience with index governance; and its policy work has previously contemplated weather-index derivatives and cash settlement. The principal regulatory challenge is therefore not the absence of legal authority. It is product-specific governance. Weather derivatives require particular attention to index integrity, geographical limitations, settlement-data reliability and predetermined procedures for data failure and correction. The United States provides a useful comparative benchmark. Its experience demonstrates that environmental variables can be converted into standardised financial products through precise contract and index design. However, the US model cannot simply be transplanted into India. The principal US exchange-traded experience has historically centred on temperature-based HDD and CDD products, whereas India’s emerging contracts are rainfall-based and present different geographical and measurement challenges. The appropriate approach is therefore selective regulatory transplantation. India should borrow principles of detailed contract specification, index transparency, source-agency identification and settlement governance, while retaining its existing SEBI-led institutional architecture. The regulatory objective should ultimately be to distinguish between unavoidable economic risk and avoidable regulatory or contractual uncertainty. Weather uncertainty and geographical basis risk cannot be eliminated. Ambiguity about the settlement methodology, data source or fallback mechanism can. India therefore does not need a separate weather-derivatives statute. It needs a regulatory architecture capable of ensuring that when rain becomes a financial variable, the path from rainfall → measurement → index → settlement → payment is transparent, reproducible and legally certain. That is the point at which monsoon risk becomes market risk—and the point at which regulation must begin. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Government PolicySEBI Author Info Name: JYOTIKA DHAR Qualification: Student - Others Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 14 View full profile → More from JYOTIKA DHAR IRS Chief Counsel Advice vs SEC No-Action Letters vs SEBI Informal Guidance: A Comparative Analysis July 24, 2026 SC’s Continued Shift Toward Creditor-Centric Enforcement Under SARFAESI Act June 25, 2026 NPAs & Enforcement of Security Interest under SARFAESI Act: Key Legal Issues June 15, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in SEBI Fixed Deposit Procedure under SEBI Research Analyst Registration October 7, 2026 SEBI Opens Chandigarh Local Office for Punjab, Haryana & Chandigarh October 6, 2026 SEBI Launches Samajh Se Investing Simple Campaign, MUST Initiative & WhatsApp Channel October 6, 2026 SEBI Mandates Investor Awareness Messages on Broker Websites and Apps From November 1 October 1, 2026 SEBI Revamps Document Number Verification System for Authentication of Letters and Notices October 1, 2026 SEBI Renews Recognition of BSE Clearing for Three Years from October 3, 2026 September 29, 2026