Summary: GST disputes are frequently determined by limitation rather than merits because statutory periods run from specifically defined events and, in several cases, the power to condone delay is itself restricted. For older periods, demands not involving fraud, wilful misstatement or suppression are governed by section 73, while cases involving fraud, wilful misstatement or suppression are governed by section 74; for financial year 2024-25 onwards, the common framework under section 74A applies. Appellate limitation generally begins from communication of the order, with the first appeal ordinarily having three months and a further one-month condonable period under section 107, while appeals to the GST Appellate Tribunal have their own statutory periods under section 112. Rectification under section 161 has a three-month application window and a broader six-month outer limit subject to the stated exception for clerical or arithmetical errors. Refund applications under section 54 generally have to be made within two years from the relevant date, which varies according to the category of refund. The practical lesson is that limitation cannot be calculated merely by looking at the date printed on an order. The taxpayer must identify the statutory event from which the period begins, diarise that date, and preserve evidence of communication. Limitation can also operate in favour of taxpayers where departmental notices, orders or rectification proceedings are initiated beyond the applicable statutory period. Table of Contents▸ Introduction The adjudication clock The appellate clock The rectification window The refund clock The event that starts the clock What a limitation discipline looks like Where limitation helps rather than hurts Conclusion Show all 9 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction More GST matters are decided by limitation than by merits, and almost none of that is visible in the reported material. A demand that could have been resisted becomes final because an appeal was filed a week late. A rectification that would have solved the problem is applied for after the window has closed. A refund that was clearly due is not claimed within two years. None of these turns on the strength of the case. All of them turn on a date. This note consolidates the periods that run across the chain, and — more importantly — identifies the event that starts each one, because that is where the errors actually occur. The adjudication clock Before any appeal exists, the department is working to its own limitation. For demands other than those involving fraud, wilful misstatement or suppression, an order under section 73 must be issued within three years from the due date for furnishing the annual return for the financial year to which the tax relates, or within three years from the date of an erroneous refund. The show cause notice must be issued at least three months before that outer date. Where fraud, wilful misstatement or suppression is alleged, section 74 extends the period to five years, with the notice due at least six months before the outer date. Section 75(10) supplies the consequence: where an order is not issued within the applicable period, the adjudication proceedings are deemed to be concluded. That is not a technicality to be raised apologetically. It is a statutory conclusion of the proceeding. Two practical points follow. First, the three-month and six-month gaps between notice and order are themselves limitation periods, and a notice issued inside that gap is vulnerable. Second, the period runs from the due date for the annual return, not from the end of the financial year — a distinction that shifts the outer date by several months and is routinely miscalculated in both directions. For financial year 2024-25 onwards a common limitation framework has been introduced in place of the separate section 73 and 74 timelines. The periods applicable to those years should be read from that provision directly rather than carried over from the older sections. The appellate clock Stage Period Condonable Runs from First appeal, Appellate Authority 3 months A further 1 month Communication of the order Departmental first appeal 6 months A further 1 month Communication of the order Appeal to the Tribunal 3 months A further 3 months Communication of the order Departmental appeal to the Tribunal 6 months A further 3 months Communication of the order Appeal to the High Court 180 days At the Court’s discretion Receipt of the order appealed against Two features of this table deserve emphasis. Condonation is bounded, not open. At the first appellate stage the Appellate Authority may allow a further month where it is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause. Before the Tribunal the further period is three months. Beyond those windows, the authority has no power to admit the appeal, because the power to condone is conferred by the section and limited by it. A delay of five months at the first appellate stage is not a long delay — it is an incurable one. “Sufficient cause” is a burden. It requires an explanation of the delay, supported and specific. An assertion that the order was overlooked, or that the consultant changed, without more, does not discharge it. The rectification window Section 161 permits rectification of an error apparent on the face of the record. It is the cheapest remedy in the chain and the most frequently missed, because two different periods apply. An affected person may apply for rectification within three months from the date of issue of the decision or order. Separately, no rectification may be made after six months from the date of issue of the order — a limit that does not apply where the rectification is purely a clerical or arithmetical error arising from an accidental slip or omission. The practical consequence: a taxpayer who receives an order containing an obvious computational error has a three-month window to ask for it to be corrected, and letting that window pass usually means paying for an appeal to fix something that was never in dispute. The refund clock A refund application must be made within two years from the relevant date, and the relevant date differs by category of refund — export of goods, export of services, deemed exports, tax paid under the wrong head, and so on each have their own definition. Two errors recur. The first is treating the date of payment as the relevant date in every case, when the section defines it separately for each category. The second is filing within two years but with an incomplete application, so that the acknowledged date of receipt falls outside the period. The event that starts the clock This is where most of the damage is done, and it is worth stating plainly. Appellate limitation under GST runs from communication of the order, not from the date the order bears and not from the date the taxpayer became aware of it. For orders uploaded to the common portal, the date of uploading is ordinarily treated as the date of communication. A business that does not monitor the portal is therefore running a limitation risk that is invisible to it: the clock is running, the order exists, and nothing has arrived in anybody’s inbox in a form the business noticed. The recurring version of this problem involves orders and notices appearing under a portal tab that the taxpayer’s team was not in the habit of opening. The consequence is a demand that became final while the business believed it had heard nothing. What a limitation discipline looks like Five things, none of which is difficult. Assign portal monitoring to a named person, with a backup. Not to a firm generally, and not to whoever logs in. Check every tab. Notices and orders do not all appear in the same place. Diarise from communication, not from receipt of a physical copy. The date on the portal is the date that matters. Record the date and the source when an order is downloaded. If communication is later disputed, that record is the evidence. Keep the registered email address current. An address belonging to a former consultant is a limitation risk in itself. Where limitation helps rather than hurts Limitation runs against the department too, and taxpayers under-use this. An order issued beyond the section 73 or section 74 period, a notice issued inside the three-month or six-month gap before the outer date, a rectification made beyond six months where the error was not clerical — each of these is a ground, and each is capable of disposing of a matter without reaching the merits. Grounds of this kind should be pleaded first, and pleaded expressly. They are frequently stronger than the merits argument that sits behind them, and they are almost always shorter. Conclusion Limitation in GST is not one period. It is a sequence of them, each running from a differently defined event, several of which are shorter than businesses assume and none of which can be extended beyond what the section allows. The discipline that protects against it is administrative rather than legal: know which clock is running, know what started it, and diarise from the portal rather than from the post. Advocate Kajol Soni is a legal and taxation professional associated with Taxation Legal Advisor, providing guidance on GST, Income Tax, taxation matters, corporate compliance and legal consultations in India. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGST Author Info Name: Taxation Legal Advisor Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: Taxation Legal Advisor Location: Gurgaon, Haryana Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Delhi HC Applies Earlier Section 107 Pre-Deposit Law to Pre-October 2025 SCNs September 12, 2026 Karnataka HC Dismisses Yes Bank KVAT Revision Over Unreported Purchases & Tax Demand September 12, 2026 KVAT refund cannot be denied despite six-month claim period: Karnataka HC September 12, 2026 Calcutta HC Quashes Single GST Notice Covering Multiple Financial Years September 12, 2026 Karnataka HC Grants Anticipatory Bail in CGST Fake Invoice ITC Case September 12, 2026 Gujarat HC Reopens GST Appeal After Rectification Order Changes Limitation Computation September 12, 2026