Summary: Climate change has become a livelihood and labour issue as environmental pressures such as floods, failed rains and other climate-related crises push people from vulnerable regions towards cities in search of employment and income. Inter-State migrant workers can face low wages, unwritten contracts, unsafe working conditions, inadequate housing and difficulties in accessing social-security benefits. Women face additional concerns relating to safety and sanitation, while repeated migration can disrupt children’s education. The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 recognises inter-State migrant workers and provides a statutory framework for their protection, but questions remain concerning registration, implementation, access to benefits and employer accountability. Migration also places additional pressure on urban infrastructure, including housing, drinking water, sanitation, waste management and public health. A climate migrant is not a conventional refugee, and climate-related mobility intersects with labour policy, social-security planning, urban development and human rights. India therefore needs an integrated approach and appropriate laws and enforcement mechanisms for inter-State climate migrants. The article also refers to international climate-migration measures and regulation of gig workers to emphasise that effective enforcement is as important as creating legal rights. Table of Contents▸ Climate Change, Livelihood and Migration Inter-State Migrant Workers and Urban Infrastructure Human Rights and Labour-Law Problems Women and Children Face Additional Risks Urban Climate Change Pressure and Governance Climate Migrants and Gaps in Existing Protection Need for an Integrated Legal Approach Development Cannot Be Measured by GDP Alone Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Climate Change, Livelihood and Migration Climate change has become a question of livelihood as much as environment, because it decides where people can still live, safe their families and earn. Humans only destroyed the environment the signs are already visible, Mosquitoes into new regions(Iceland) El Nino – related climate pressures and devastating floods, failed rains, these kind of environmental cricis need new laws in indian labour law jurisprudence example definition of climate migrants and enforcement mechanism. However, has no clear protection for those who leave home because climate stress has ended livelihoods. Inter-State Migrant Workers and Urban Infrastructure The consequences are most visible among migrant workers (inter-state). Who shifted or People move from rural and environmentally vulnerable regions to cities in search of work, employment and income to secured their family present and future generations. The 2011 census tamilnadu recorded 34 lakhs people who moved into the inter-state for work, after 2011 current estimates put the figure near 35 lakhs, though only about 15 lakh are registered on the state’s migrant workers portal. Industrial centres such as Chennai, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Hosur depand heavily on this workforce. Thiruppur alone has has 2.1 lakh registered migrant workers, and union’s say real number is closer to 3 lakh. Many migrant families in major areas employer provided poorly build shelters with half necessity but migration can place additional pressure on urban infrastructure with invisible dispute in upcoming sustainable developments. Housing, drinking water, sanitation, waste management and public health services must serve both existing residents and migrant communities. Human Rights and Labour-Law Problems This creates new kind of both a human-rights and labour-law problem. Inter-state Migrant workers may enter employment without working conditions, working hours, unwritten contracts, receive low wages, without annual benefits and lack effective access to social-security benefits or safe working conditions. Workers unskilled example factories, mines, transportation and other occupations are particularly vulnerable to exploitation. The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020 recognises inter-State migrant workers and provides a statutory framework for their protection, effective registration, implementation, whether workers can actually claim their benefits and employer’s accountability. Women and Children Face Additional Risks The problem does not prevent at the workplace. Women face added risk, additional difficulties concerning safety and sanitation, while children’s education is disrupted when families repeatedly move in search of employment. Urban Climate Change Pressure and Governance Urban climate change pressure makes this worse. Growing population produces more quantities of household waste and direct contribute to air and noise pollution. It creates more burden in municipal infrastructure does not keep pace with population growth. This matters more as changes Indian labours, existing labour protections therefore need to be considered together with urban governance, planing and human-rights obligations. The International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights recognises rights to free consent work, just and fair working conditions, health, Climate Migrants and Gaps in Existing Protection A climate migrant is not a conventional refugee, yet environmental conditions may contribute substantially to the decision to migrate other place to live. Such a person may circumstantially be a migrant worker, an informal worker, a woman facing unsafe living conditions, or a child whose education has been lost. If each problem is treated separately, gaps in protection still remain. Need for an Integrated Legal Approach Indian labour jurisprudence needs new enactment and an integrated approach. Climate-related mobility, whether issues of livelihood as much as healthy environment to work, so it belongs in labour policy, social-security planning and urban development, not only labour matters it interlinked with human rights. New Zealand and Australia have created climate-specific visas for displaced Pacific Islanders, above countries cover cross border movement, so India must design its own laws and enforcement for inter-state migrants. Development Cannot Be Measured by GDP Alone GPD only think cannot be measured in development of the state. It is connected to labour, contribution of those who work, including gig workers and who earns are modest, unprotected. New York City requires minimum pay for app-based delivery workers. Seattle shows that a pay rule alone is not enough, since a study found no net rise in monthly earnings, so enforcement design matters. Indian constitution must protect the dignity, safety and basic rights of the people who make it function. Find the climate migrants protect and securing the present and future of their families, and towards a climate response that does not leave vulnerable behind. *** –BY P. RAJAGOPAL P AND RENITHA. J | VINAYAKA MISSION’S LAW SCHOOL, CHENNAI, Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Government Policy Author Info Name: Rajagopal Perumal Qualification: Graduate Location: Krishnagiri, Tamil Nadu Articles Published: 3 View full profile → More from Rajagopal Perumal GAAR: A Comparative Analysis of Developed and BRICS Economies August 29, 2026 Digital Companies Earn From India Without Fair Tax Liability May 11, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Validity of Inter-State Stamping and Notarisation of a Document October 7, 2026 PF Wage Ceiling Raised to Rs 25,000 from 17 September 2026 October 7, 2026 Tainted Currency Recovery Without Proven Demand Cannot Sustain Conviction: SC October 6, 2026 Entire Bank Account Cannot Remain Frozen for ₹2,253 Dispute: Calcutta HC October 6, 2026 FSSAI Notifies Vegan Foods Second Amendment Regulations, 2026 October 6, 2026 FSSAI De-notifies Food Safety Officers for Fortified Rice Kernel October 6, 2026