Summary: Developing a reliable product-wise costing system in the food processing industry requires more than extracting expenses from the accounting ledger. This practical case study explains a factory-based approach beginning with process mapping and yield measurement, followed by identification of cost centres, machine and utility usage, expense grouping, allocation of common costs and preparation of product-wise cost sheets. Using illustrative air-dried, freeze-dried and IQF mango production, it demonstrates how differences in saleable yield, processing requirements, energy consumption, packaging, quality control and storage can significantly affect cost per kilogram. The methodology emphasizes direct tracing of costs wherever possible and the use of reasonable, documented allocation bases for shared costs. It also shows how product costs can be reconciled with overall expenses and converted into a monthly management dashboard covering yield, cost per kilogram, electricity consumption, downtime, rejects and other operational indicators. The central lesson is that an effective costing system should connect factory-floor activity with accounting records so that management can understand not merely what each product costs, but why those costs arise and where operational improvements may be possible. Costing System Development In The Food Processing Industry | From Factory Visit to Product-Wise Costing: A Practical Case Study Table of Contents▸ 1. The assignment: A problem raised by management 2. First, understand how the factory works 3. Step 1 — Map the process and measure the yield 4. Step 2 — Identify the cost centres 5. Step 3 — List machines and measure resource use 6. Step 4 — Collect expenses and group them 7. Step 5 — Share common costs on a sensible basis 8. Step 6 — Prepare product-wise cost sheets 9. Step 7 — Use the numbers to ask better questions 10. A simple monthly dashboard 11. Factory visit checklist 12. Implement the system in stages Conclusion — Start with the factory, not just the accounts Show all 13 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 1. The assignment: A problem raised by management “We process fruits and vegetables using different methods, but we cannot clearly tell what it costs to make each product. We know our total monthly expenses, but we do not know why one product costs more than another.” This was the concern raised by Fresh Harvest Foods Pvt. Ltd., a fictional food-processing company planning to expand its business. The company produced air-dried, freeze-dried and individually quick-frozen (IQF) products. Its accounts team could report total expenditure, but management needed product-wise costs to support pricing and production decisions. We were asked to develop a practical costing system. I visited the factory with a small team—a costing professional, an engineer and an audit assistant. Instead of starting with the accounts ledger, we began on the factory floor with one question: Can we trace the cost from raw material receipt to saleable finished goods? 2. First, understand how the factory works We found that the plant had three different production routes. Fruits and vegetables were received, checked, washed, sorted and prepared. They were then sent to the relevant line—air drying, freeze drying or IQF. After processing, the products were checked, packed and stored before dispatch. Stage What we needed to record Receipt and inspection Quantity received, purchase rate, batch number and quality checks Washing and preparation Quantity processed, peeling/cutting loss, rejects and water use Processing Machine used, batch size, operating time, electricity and output Quality and packing Testing, rework, packaging material and packing time Storage and dispatch Saleable quantity, storage time and dispatch details The exact process depends on the product. For example, blanching may be required for some IQF vegetables, but not for every product. We also learned that the same quantity of raw material can produce very different quantities of finished goods. Drying removes moisture and reduces weight. IQF products generally retain more of their original weight, though trimming and rejection still occur. That is why cost per kilogram must be calculated using saleable finished goods—not simply the raw material received. 3. Step 1 — Map the process and measure the yield We met the production manager and supervisors and mapped each product’s journey through the factory. At every stage, we recorded the quantity entering, the quantity coming out, the loss and the resources used. For a simple illustration, suppose 1,000 kg of fresh mango is received. After peeling, seed removal and trimming, 900 kg remains for processing. After air drying, 120 kg of dried product is obtained: 115 kg is saleable and 5 kg is rejected or sent for rework. Stage Illustrative quantity Fresh mango received 1,000 kg Prepared mango after trimming 900 kg Dried product after processing 120 kg Saleable dried product 115 kg Rejects/rework 5 kg The 100 kg removed during preparation is different from the weight lost during drying, which is largely moisture. We therefore separated normal process loss, unusual loss and rework. A high weight reduction during drying is not automatically a defect; the reason for the loss matters. This batch example is separate from the monthly figures used later in the article. 4. Step 2 — Identify the cost centres A cost centre is a part of the factory where costs are collected and monitored. The company’s accounts showed broad expense headings such as electricity, salaries and repairs, but did not show which line used those resources. We created a cost-centre list based on the factory’s actual operations. Code Cost centre Type CC-01 Raw material receiving Production CC-02 Washing and sorting Production CC-03 Cutting and preparation Production CC-04 Air-drying line Production CC-05 Freeze-drying line Production CC-06 IQF line Production CC-07 Packaging Production CC-08 Utilities Service CC-09 Maintenance Service CC-10 Quality control Service CC-11 Finished-goods cold storage Service CC-12 Factory administration Support We created a separate cost centre when an operation had its own equipment, used resources differently or needed separate cost reporting. The system should be detailed enough to help management, but not so complicated that staff cannot maintain it. 5. Step 3 — List machines and measure resource use Next, we visited the production lines, electrical panels and refrigeration area. We requested the machine list, rated power, operating hours, maintenance records and available electricity meter readings. Machine Illustrative rated power Cost centre Air dryer 100 kW CC-04 Freeze dryer 180 kW CC-05 IQF tunnel 150 kW CC-06 Washing line 25 kW CC-02 Cutting machine 20 kW CC-03 Cold-storage system 80 kW CC-11 Rated power is not the same as actual electricity use. Where a separate meter was not available, we used a clearly labelled estimate and planned to validate it. Estimated electricity (kWh) = Rated power (kW) × Operating hours × Assumed load factor. For example, a 100 kW air dryer operating for 8 hours at an assumed 70% load would use an estimated 560 kWh (100 × 8 × 70%). If saleable output were 140 kg, estimated electricity use would be 4 kWh per kg (560 ÷ 140). This is an estimate, not a meter reading. We tracked four resource groups: materials (input, yield and rejects), labour (hours), machines (operating time and downtime), and utilities (electricity, water, fuel and refrigeration where relevant). 6. Step 4 — Collect expenses and group them After understanding the process, we met the accounts team. We requested the trial balance, expense details, payroll, electricity and fuel bills, repair records, depreciation schedules, packaging purchases and other relevant documents. For this simplified example, assume the factory processes 20,000 kg of fresh mango at ₹40 per kg. The following monthly costs are imaginary: Expense head Monthly amount Fresh mango purchases ₹8,00,000 Processing expenses ₹7,80,000 Packaging expenses ₹2,37,000 Quality control and storage ₹1,70,000 Total ₹19,87,000 We assigned costs directly where possible. Shared costs—such as common refrigeration, maintenance and quality control—were kept separate until we selected a fair way to distribute them. 7. Step 5 — Share common costs on a sensible basis Some costs can be linked directly to a product or production line. Others support several lines. We selected a basis that reflects what drives each cost, rather than spreading every expense in the same way. Cost Possible basis for sharing Electricity Meter readings or validated electricity estimates Labour Recorded labour hours or batch time Maintenance Work orders or machine hours, where appropriate Quality control Number of tests, batches or testing hours Cold storage Pallet-days, storage space or time in storage Factory administration A reasonable production-related basis, if justified The basis should be recorded and reviewed. If a cost can be directly traced, assigning it directly is usually clearer than sharing it through a broad pool. 8. Step 6 — Prepare product-wise cost sheets We combined material, processing, packaging, quality-control and storage costs for each product. The figures below are illustrative. The monthly cost allocations are assumed for this example; a real factory would need supporting records and a suitable allocation method. Particulars Air-dried Freeze-dried IQF Fresh mango input 8,000 kg 6,000 kg 6,000 kg Saleable output 1,000 kg 900 kg 5,100 kg Saleable yield 12.5% 15.0% 85.0% Fresh mango cost ₹3,20,000 ₹2,40,000 ₹2,40,000 Processing costs ₹1,80,000 ₹3,60,000 ₹2,40,000 Packaging ₹45,000 ₹72,000 ₹1,20,000 Quality control and storage ₹30,000 ₹50,000 ₹90,000 Total product cost ₹5,75,000 ₹7,22,000 ₹6,90,000 Cost per saleable kg ₹575.00 ₹802.22 ₹135.29 Cost per kg is calculated by dividing total product cost by saleable output. For air-dried mango: ₹5,75,000 ÷ 1,000 kg = ₹575 per kg. The three product costs total ₹19,87,000, matching the simplified monthly expense total. In an actual system, any unallocated amount or cost kept outside product cost should be shown and explained. The cost difference does not, by itself, mean that one process is inefficient. The products have different yields, processing needs and market characteristics. Cost should be reviewed alongside selling price, contribution, demand and available capacity. 9. Step 7 — Use the numbers to ask better questions The cost sheet is a starting point for management review. We suggested asking: Why does freeze-dried product cost more per kg? Check processing time, energy use, batch size, yield and packaging. Is the air-drying line using its available time well? Track operating hours, changeovers, downtime and output. Is IQF yield steady from batch to batch? Compare input, trimming, rejects and saleable output. Are shared costs being distributed fairly? Review the basis used for refrigeration, maintenance and quality control. What does the cost mean for pricing and product mix? Compare cost with selling price, contribution, demand and capacity. 10. A simple monthly dashboard Measure Illustrative result Fresh mango input 20,000 kg Saleable output across the three products 7,000 kg Total cost in this example ₹19,87,000 Blended cost per kg of total output ₹283.86 The blended cost is an average across three different products. It should not replace the separate product-wise costs. A useful dashboard can also show product yield, cost per kg, electricity use, downtime, rejects, labour hours, contribution and any costs not yet allocated. 11. Factory visit checklist Area Information to collect Production Process flow, batch size, capacity, output, input, loss, rejects, rework and saleable yield Machines and utilities Machine list, rated power, operating hours, downtime, meter readings, electricity, water, fuel and refrigeration Accounts and costs Trial balance, expense details, material rates and issues, payroll, packaging, repairs, depreciation and existing cost sheets Management and sales Selling prices, sales quantity, customer needs, capacity use, expansion plans and reporting requirements This checklist helps the team collect the information needed to build a costing system based on factory activity, rather than unsupported assumptions. 12. Implement the system in stages Phase Main work Output 1 Map processes and define cost centres Process map and cost-centre list 2 Record machines, utilities and resource use Resource information 3 Group expenses and choose sharing bases Cost groups and allocation plan 4 Prepare product-wise cost sheets Cost per saleable kg 5 Test and reconcile the figures Checked costing results 6 Review results every month Management dashboard and action points We recommended a monthly meeting involving finance, production, engineering and quality teams. They would review yield changes, energy use, machine utilisation, cost movements and missing data. A costing system is useful only when its information is reliable, updated and used. Conclusion — Start with the factory, not just the accounts The assignment began with a simple request: “Tell us what each product costs.” The factory visit showed that we first needed to understand the production process, measure material and resource use, identify cost centres, collect expenses and share common costs on a reasonable basis. The sequence was straightforward: factory visit → process mapping → cost centres → resource measurement → cost collection → cost allocation → product-wise costing → review and action. A costing system should not begin and end with a spreadsheet. It should connect what happens on the factory floor with the company’s accounts and turn that information into practical decisions. This is where a CMA can help management understand not only what a product costs, but also why it costs that much and what can be improved. ****** Disclaimer: This article is intended for educational and professional knowledge-sharing purposes. The company name, operational details, production quantities, cost figures, machine capacities and calculations used in the case study are illustrative and do not represent any actual company or verified industrial data. The costing methodology and allocation bases discussed are indicative and should be adapted to the specific manufacturing process, available records and applicable cost accounting requirements. The article should not be treated as a substitute for professional advice or a statutory compliance document. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Cost Audit Author Info Name: CMA HEMENDER SONI Qualification: CMA Company: K. B. Saxena & Associates (Cost Accountants) Location: Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Articles Published: 18 View full profile → More from CMA HEMENDER SONI Integrating ESG with Costing: Emerging Role of Cost & Management Accountants June 17, 2026 How TDS on Purchase of Goods Changed Business Compliance in India? May 25, 2026 CTE & CTO Certificates: Requirement, Applicability & Regulatory Framework April 16, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance From the Salt Tax to UPI MDR: Who Really Pays the cost? September 26, 2026 IFSCA Framework for Differential Distribution in Venture Capital and Restricted Schemes September 25, 2026 Best Fixed Deposit Options In India September 25, 2026 Why Traders Sometimes Enter a Trade Too Late September 25, 2026 CAGR Calculator vs Lumpsum Calculator – What Does Each One Tell You? September 24, 2026 PMLA Special Court Jurisdiction Revised for Four Himachal Pradesh Districts September 23, 2026