Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Bharat Forge Ltd. (BFL), a prominent player in advanced forging and precision engineering, has announced a significant long-term contract with Pratt & Whitney Canada, a leading aerospace engine manufacturer. This agreement entails the supply of critical aerospace engine components, marking a substantial development in Bharat Forge’s global aerospace partnerships. The components under this contract will be manufactured at Bharat Forge’s state-of-the-art aerospace facility in India. This facility is specifically designed to produce high-performance, high-value aero-engine products, integrating advanced manufacturing technologies. It adheres to the highest global standards of quality, precision, reliability, and traceability, which are essential in the aerospace industry. Amit Kalyani, Vice-Chairman and Joint Managing Director of Bharat Forge Ltd., expressed that this partnership underscores Bharat Forge’s leadership in the global aerospace supply chain. He highlighted the company’s commitment to delivering world-class aerospace solutions through advanced manufacturing and operational excellence. Nathalie Rivet, Vice President of Supply Chain at Pratt & Whitney Canada, emphasised the collaboration as a strategic move to build a resilient and high-performing global supply chain. She acknowledged Bharat Forge’s capabilities in aerospace manufacturing, technical excellence, and robust quality commitment, which align with Pratt & Whitney’s requirements. This partnership reflects the trust that leading aerospace Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) place in Bharat Forge’s engineering expertise and manufacturing excellence. It underscores Bharat Forge’s commitment to delivering high-value solutions that meet the stringent performance requirements of the global aerospace industry. The collaboration is also indicative of India’s growing prominence in the aerospace manufacturing sector, supported by Bharat Forge’s strategic industrial and defence ambitions. Analysts view this development as a positive step for Bharat Forge, enhancing its position in the global aerospace market. It also highlights the increasing trend of international aerospace companies sourcing components from India, recognising the country’s growing capabilities in high-tech manufacturing and engineering. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Business Coforge launches intent engineering framework for outcome-aligned AI agents October 5, 2026 DLF achieves complete sell-out of The Aureva with sales nearing ₹1985 crore October 4, 2026 Aurobindo Pharma secures USFDA approval for Perampanel tablets in multiple strengths October 3, 2026 Jaguar Land Rover reports robust sales growth in Q2 FY27 October 3, 2026 Bombay High Court reinstates de-registration and promoter change for Mahalaxmi project October 1, 2026 Hero MotoCorp reports 12% increase in September dispatches ahead of festive season October 1, 2026