Summary: A controversy over the functioning of the Election Commission of India (ECI) emerged after The Indian Express reported that Election Commissioners Sukhbir Singh Sandhu and Vivek Joshi had recorded objections at least 14 times over approximately ten months concerning electoral-roll administration, including matters connected with the Special Intensive Revision (SIR). Opposition leaders relied on the disclosures to question the Commission’s functioning, while BJP leaders argued that internal disagreement demonstrates institutional deliberation rather than illegality. The ECI responded on September 23, 2026 that differing views and observations are normal during deliberations and that its final decisions, including SIR, were unanimous decisions of the full Commission. The controversy therefore requires an important legal distinction between an internal objection during consideration of a proposal and a formal difference of opinion on a matter requiring a Commission decision. Section 18 of the Chief Election Commissioner and Other Election Commissioners (Appointment, Conditions of Service and Term of Office) Act, 2023 expressly recognises that Commissioners can disagree: business should, as far as possible, be unanimous, but where opinions differ, the majority decides. Consequently, neither the existence of internal objections nor the ECI’s statement about unanimous final decisions necessarily disproves the other. The more significant legal question is whether particular actions challenged internally were merely draft or operational matters later approved by the Commission, or substantive Commission business implemented before obtaining the collective approval required by law. Table of Contents▸ What Triggered the Election Commission Controversy? ECI Responds: Final Decisions, Including SIR, Were Unanimous Internal Dissent and Final Unanimity Are Not Necessarily Contradictory Three Different Forms of 'Dissent' Need to Be Separated 1. Suggestions or Objections During Drafting 2. Objection to an Administrative or Operational Action 3. Formal Difference of Opinion on Commission Business What Section 18 of the 2023 Act Actually Provides Two Commissioners Can Outvote the CEC Supreme Court: Election Commissioners Are Not Mere Advisers to CEC Why the Word 'Unanimous' Does Not End the Debate ECI Gives More Specific Clarification on SIR Supreme Court Upheld Bihar SIR in May 2026 Opposition Leaders Draw Broader Conclusions BJP Says Dissent Shows Institutional Deliberation Why Did the Two Commissioners Not Formally Outvote the CEC? Public Unity and Internal Differences Can Coexist ECINet Becomes Part of the Controversy ECI Orders Independent-Expert Review of ECINet ECI Changes Its Own Meeting Procedures Social Media Debate: Three Competing Narratives Historical Precedent Shows ECI Dissent Is Not New A Legal Test for Understanding Each of the 14 Objections What Is Established and What Remains Contested? Internal Dissent Is Not the Same as Institutional Illegality Conclusion Show all 26 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); What Triggered the Election Commission Controversy? The immediate controversy followed an investigation published by The Indian Express on September 23, 2026. The report said Election Commissioners Sukhbir Singh Sandhu and Vivek Joshi had placed objections on record at least 14 times during approximately ten months concerning various aspects of electoral-roll administration. The reported issues included registration of new voters, deletion and restoration of names, Form 6, appeals concerning restoration of voters, control and security of electoral-roll data, IT systems and allocation of responsibilities. The report was politically significant because the Election Commission presently functions as a three-member body comprising the Chief Election Commissioner and two Election Commissioners. If both Election Commissioners held a contrary view on a matter requiring a decision of the Commission, their combined position would constitute the majority. But that proposition does not establish that every objection contained in an internal note amounted to such a formal difference of opinion. That distinction is central to understanding the controversy. ECI Responds: Final Decisions, Including SIR, Were Unanimous The Election Commission issued a detailed statement on September 23, 2026. It said written notes, observations, technical suggestions and internal checks are standard practices within a multi-member constitutional institution and are intended to promote transparency, legal compliance and operational rigour. The Commission further stated: “Differing views and observations are a normal part of deliberation in any institution.” Most importantly, the ECI said that its decisions during the preceding year, including electoral-roll revisions and SIR, were the outcome of unanimous decisions of the full Commission. According to the ECI, highlighting particular internal notes from a ten-month period without considering subsequent approvals, decisions and instructions presents only part of the institutional record. This creates the central issue: Can Commissioners have recorded objections while the Commission’s eventual decision was nevertheless unanimous? Legally and institutionally, the answer can be yes. But that answer depends upon what each objection concerned and what happened after it was raised. Internal Dissent and Final Unanimity Are Not Necessarily Contradictory Much of the political and social-media debate has treated two propositions as mutually exclusive: Proposition 1: Two Election Commissioners raised objections. Proposition 2: The final decisions of the Election Commission were unanimous. Both propositions can potentially be true. Consider a three-member body considering a proposal. At the initial stage, Member A proposes a course of action. Members B and C object to particular features. The proposal is reconsidered or modified. After further discussion, all three members approve the revised proposal. There has been genuine internal disagreement. There has also been a unanimous final decision. The existence of the earlier objection does not make the final unanimity fictitious. Equally, the eventual unanimous decision does not mean the earlier objection never existed. This distinction becomes much more important, however, where the allegation is not merely that Commissioners disagreed with a draft proposal but that a substantive action had already been undertaken without their knowledge or approval. That presents a different legal question. Three Different Forms of ‘Dissent’ Need to Be Separated The expression “dissent” has been used broadly in political discussion surrounding the controversy. Legally, at least three situations need to be distinguished. 1. Suggestions or Objections During Drafting A Commissioner may question wording, procedure, technology or implementation while a proposal is still being formulated. The proposal may then be changed and eventually approved unanimously. This is ordinary institutional deliberation and is broadly consistent with the explanation offered by the ECI. 2. Objection to an Administrative or Operational Action A Commissioner may object that an officer, IT division or administrative authority has undertaken something that should have been placed before the Commission. The issue here is not necessarily whether the Commissioner ultimately opposed the underlying policy. The question instead becomes whether the particular action required prior approval of the Commission and, if so, whether such approval existed when the action was taken. 3. Formal Difference of Opinion on Commission Business The third situation is legally the clearest. If a matter requiring a Commission decision is placed before all three Commissioners and they differ in opinion, Section 18 provides the mechanism for resolving that disagreement. It is the majority, not the Chief Election Commissioner acting alone, that determines the matter. Conflating these three situations can produce misleading conclusions in either direction. What Section 18 of the 2023 Act Actually Provides The legal framework is particularly important. Section 18 of the Chief Election Commissioner and Other Election Commissioners (Appointment, Conditions of Service and Term of Office) Act, 2023 deals with disposal of the Election Commission’s business. Section 18(1) provides that the Commission may, by unanimous decision, regulate the procedure for transaction of its business and allocation of business among the CEC and Election Commissioners. Section 18(2) then provides that: “All business of the Election Commission shall, as far as possible, be transacted unanimously…” But Parliament expressly contemplated that unanimity may sometimes be impossible. The same provision states that if the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners differ in opinion on any matter, that matter shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority. This statutory provision materially changes how the present controversy should be analysed. Dissent within the Election Commission is not inherently unlawful. The statute itself anticipates disagreement. Two Commissioners Can Outvote the CEC The majority rule has another important consequence. The Chief Election Commissioner is the Chairman of the Election Commission, but that does not mean that the CEC possesses an additional or casting vote enabling him to override both Election Commissioners. In a three-member Commission: If all three agree, the decision is unanimous. If the CEC and one Election Commissioner agree while the other disagrees, the decision is 2-1. If both Election Commissioners agree and the CEC disagrees, the two Election Commissioners constitute the majority. Accordingly, if Sandhu and Joshi had both formally opposed the same substantive matter placed before the Commission, their combined opinion would ordinarily constitute the majority under Section 18. The critical factual question is therefore whether the reported internal objections represented such a joint difference of opinion on a matter placed before the Commission, or whether they concerned draft-stage, administrative or implementation issues that were subsequently resolved. The publicly available material does not justify treating every reported objection as automatically equivalent to a 2-1 Commission decision. Supreme Court: Election Commissioners Are Not Mere Advisers to CEC The collective character of the Commission is also supported by Supreme Court jurisprudence. In the litigation concerning the appointment and independence of Election Commissioners, the Supreme Court referred to the constitutional position that Election Commissioners cannot be reduced to mere advisers to the CEC. Discussing the earlier Constitution Bench ruling in T.N. Seshan v. Union of India, the Supreme Court observed that the Election Commissioners have a crucial constitutional role and that the constitutional structure does not make the CEC the final authority on every matter merely because he is Chairman. The legal structure therefore combines two principles: institutional leadership by the CEC, and collective decision-making by the Commission. Section 18 gives practical statutory effect to the second principle by prescribing unanimity where possible and majority decision where Commissioners differ. Why the Word ‘Unanimous’ Does Not End the Debate The ECI’s statement that the final SIR decisions were unanimous is highly relevant. But it does not, by itself, answer every issue raised by the reported objections. Suppose an administrative action requiring Commission approval was implemented on Day 1. Two Commissioners objected on Day 5 that they had never approved it. The Commission subsequently considered and unanimously approved a modified arrangement on Day 10. The Day 10 unanimity would not automatically answer whether the Day 1 action had appropriate authority when it was undertaken. Conversely, an objection raised on Day 1 to a proposed arrangement would not demonstrate illegality if the proposal was reconsidered and the lawful final decision was unanimously adopted on Day 10. Therefore, chronology matters. So does the precise subject of each internal note. ECI Gives More Specific Clarification on SIR The Election Commission subsequently provided additional details after a meeting of the full Commission held on September 26, 2026. It stated specifically that the order dated June 24, 2025 initiating SIR for all States and Union Territories, beginning with Bihar, had been issued with the unanimous approval of the Commission. It similarly stated that the SIR schedules issued on October 27, 2025 and May 14, 2026 had unanimous Commission approval. This is more specific than the September 23 general statement because it identifies particular SIR decisions and expressly records the Commission’s position regarding their approval. The Commission also referred to the Supreme Court’s May 27, 2026 judgment concerning the Bihar SIR. Supreme Court Upheld Bihar SIR in May 2026 The legal validity of the Bihar SIR itself had already reached the Supreme Court. In Association for Democratic Reforms v. Election Commission of India, decided on May 27, 2026, the Supreme Court upheld the Bihar SIR. The Court held that the exercise was traceable to Section 21(3) of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 read with Article 324 of the Constitution. It found that the SIR pursued legitimate objectives concerning inclusion of eligible electors and exclusion of ineligible entries and was subject to procedural safeguards. The Court also explained the relationship between Article 324 and parliamentary election law. Article 324 gives the Election Commission substantial constitutional authority over electoral administration, but that authority must be exercised consistently with legislation enacted by Parliament. That judgment is relevant to the legal authority to conduct SIR. It does not, however, necessarily resolve every later factual question concerning particular administrative actions or internal decision-making subsequently reported. Those are distinct issues. Opposition Leaders Draw Broader Conclusions Publication of the reported objections prompted strong reactions from Opposition parties. Opposition leaders argued that the disclosures raised questions about the functioning and independence of the Commission. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav linked the disclosures with his party’s previous concerns regarding electoral administration and questioned the impartiality of the Commission. Other Opposition leaders demanded accountability from Chief Election Commissioner Gyanesh Kumar and questioned whether decisions described publicly as Commission decisions had always received proper collective consideration. Some political statements went considerably further, seeking to connect the internal objections with allegations regarding electoral outcomes. Those remain political allegations. The existence of internal objections does not, by itself, establish manipulation of an election result. BJP Says Dissent Shows Institutional Deliberation The BJP offered the opposite interpretation. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra argued that differences within the Commission reflected a functioning democratic institution and described the Opposition’s attack as an attempt to undermine constitutional institutions. He characterised internal disagreement as evidence of a “vibrant democracy”. This interpretation finds some support in the statutory structure to the limited extent that Section 18 itself anticipates differences of opinion. However, the existence of a statutory mechanism for disagreement does not independently establish whether that mechanism was followed in relation to every action questioned in the internal correspondence. That remains a factual issue. Why Did the Two Commissioners Not Formally Outvote the CEC? Another question emerged during public discussion. If Sandhu and Joshi both believed that a particular substantive Commission decision was unlawful or should not be taken, why did they not constitute a majority and decide the matter accordingly? Commentators including Yogendra Yadav and Rajat Sethi raised variations of this question. It was also pointed out that the publicly available information did not establish whether the objections constituted a joint formal opposition to the same final decisions. That distinction again matters. Two Commissioners separately questioning different operational actions over ten months is not legally identical to two Commissioners jointly voting against a particular proposal placed before the Commission. Public Unity and Internal Differences Can Coexist Another development complicates simple political narratives. During the same period in which the reported objections were being recorded, the three Commissioners continued to participate jointly in public briefings and other official engagements. India Today identified several such joint appearances between October 2025 and August 2026. This does not prove that the Commissioners agreed on every administrative matter. Nor does the existence of internal objections prove that the Commission was institutionally dysfunctional. Collegiate institutions routinely contain internal disagreement while continuing to operate collectively. The legally relevant issue is how those differences affect decisions requiring collective approval. ECINet Becomes Part of the Controversy The dispute also extended to the Commission’s digital infrastructure. ECINet and related electoral-roll systems perform an increasingly important role in voter registration, deletion, verification and electoral administration. The ECI said on September 23 that its digital platforms operate under strict security protocols and audit controls designed to prevent unauthorised manipulation. It also stressed that Electoral Registration Officers and District Election Officers exercise their statutory powers under law. Questions nevertheless arose about whether the technology available to field officers adequately reflected the statutory powers vested in them. That is an important governance issue independent of party politics. A digital platform implementing electoral legislation should ordinarily facilitate the powers and safeguards created by statute rather than unintentionally narrowing them. ECI Orders Independent-Expert Review of ECINet The Commission’s September 26 decisions directly addressed this concern. A committee headed by a Senior Deputy Election Commissioner and including an independent expert from IIT/IIIT will review ECINet to verify its compliance with applicable Acts and Rules. The Commission also stated that field officers have role-based ECINet access corresponding to their statutory powers and that additional flexibility would be made operational where required. It further decided that new IT modules and portal initiatives would henceforth be discussed by a Committee of Officers before Commission approval. These measures do not themselves establish that the earlier system was unlawful. They nevertheless constitute an institutional response to concerns about technology, statutory authority and internal approval. ECI Changes Its Own Meeting Procedures Perhaps the most consequential institutional development following the controversy concerns Commission meetings themselves. After its September 26 meeting, the ECI announced: “For all Commission’s meeting, agenda will be circulated in advance and minutes will be issued.” The Commission also directed that instructions issued by Commissioners to officers must be complied with. These measures could reduce future disputes about whether a matter was formally before the Commission, what individual Commissioners said and what the Commission ultimately decided. They also highlight why documentation is important in a multi-member constitutional body. Social Media Debate: Three Competing Narratives Social-media reaction broadly developed along three lines. One group treated the internal objections as evidence supporting wider allegations made by Opposition parties regarding electoral-roll administration. Another argued that disagreement inside a constitutional institution is normal and that the fact Commissioners could record objections demonstrates internal checks rather than institutional failure. A third group focused less on political parties and more on institutional transparency—asking whether significant Commission decisions, agendas, minutes and recorded differences should be documented more systematically. Each narrative contains a different interpretation of the same underlying events. What cannot safely be inferred from the reported objections alone is that elections were manipulated or that particular governments were elected because of unlawful changes to voter rolls. Those are materially broader propositions requiring separate evidence. Historical Precedent Shows ECI Dissent Is Not New Differences between Election Commissioners are not unprecedented. Since the Election Commission became a permanent three-member institution in 1993, disagreements have arisen on several occasions, including during the tenures associated with T.N. Seshan, N. Gopalaswami and Ashok Lavasa. What makes the present controversy notable is therefore not merely that Commissioners disagreed. The significance lies in the reported frequency of the objections, the importance of electoral-roll administration, and allegations in some of the correspondence that particular actions occurred without the knowledge or approval of Commissioners. A Legal Test for Understanding Each of the 14 Objections Instead of treating all reported objections identically, each can be examined through a simple institutional test. First, what exactly was the subject matter? Was it a draft proposal, operational instruction, IT change or substantive policy decision? Second, did the matter require approval of the full Commission? Not every operational act necessarily requires a separate three-member decision. Third, when was the objection raised? Was it before implementation, after implementation or while a proposal was still being considered? Fourth, what happened after the objection? Was the proposal withdrawn, modified, approved unanimously or decided by majority? Fifth, what does the formal institutional record show? This is where agendas, minutes, approval notes and final orders become important. Without these distinctions, the phrase “14 objections” provides important information about internal disagreement but cannot by itself determine the legality of 14 separate actions. What Is Established and What Remains Contested? Certain points are reasonably clear from the presently available record. Two Election Commissioners reportedly recorded multiple objections concerning electoral-roll administration and related matters. The ECI acknowledges that Commissioners raised observations and suggestions, but characterises them as part of ordinary deliberative and administrative processes. The ECI says its final decisions, including the principal SIR decisions, were unanimous. Its September 26 statement specifically identifies the June 24, 2025 SIR order and later schedules as having unanimous approval. Section 18 of the 2023 Act expressly allows differences of opinion and requires the majority view to prevail where unanimity cannot be achieved. The Supreme Court has recognised that Election Commissioners are not merely advisers to the CEC, while its May 2026 judgment separately upheld the legal authority for the Bihar SIR. What remains contested is the institutional significance of individual objections and whether particular administrative steps identified in the reported correspondence required prior collective approval that had not yet been obtained. Internal Dissent Is Not the Same as Institutional Illegality The controversy ultimately illustrates why the expressions dissent, decision and approval should not be used interchangeably. Dissent during deliberation is compatible with a unanimous final decision. A formal dissent from a final proposal is compatible with a valid majority decision. But an action requiring Commission approval, if implemented without obtaining the legally required collective decision, raises a different question altogether. Section 18 does not demand that the three Commissioners agree on everything. It demands an institutional process: unanimity as far as possible and majority decision where opinions differ. Accordingly, the decisive issue is not simply whether Sandhu and Joshi “dissented” or whether the ECI can point to subsequent “unanimity”. The more precise questions are: What was the matter before the Commission? When was it placed before all three members? What were their views at that stage? Was any disputed action already implemented? And what decision was ultimately recorded by the Commission? The ECI’s decision after the controversy to circulate agendas in advance and issue minutes for Commission meetings should make those distinctions clearer in future. Conclusion The present controversy should therefore not be reduced to a binary claim that either there was dissent and consequently no valid Commission decision, or that there was eventual unanimity and consequently the earlier objections have no significance. Indian law expressly accommodates disagreement within the Election Commission. Article 324 establishes the Commission as the constitutional authority responsible for electoral superintendence, direction and control. Section 18 of the 2023 Act supplies an important rule for collective decision-making: the Commission should endeavour to act unanimously, but where its members differ, the majority decides. Against that framework, the reported objections of Election Commissioners Sandhu and Joshi are relevant to understanding the Commission’s internal functioning. The ECI’s subsequent statement that the principal SIR decisions received unanimous approval is equally relevant. Neither fact should be erased to accommodate a political narrative. The legally significant inquiry is narrower and more factual: whether each disputed action was within delegated or operational authority, whether it required consideration by the full Commission, whether that consideration occurred before the action was implemented, and what the formal decision of the three-member Commission ultimately was. The political debate will inevitably continue, but answering those questions requires institutional records and chronology rather than assumptions drawn solely from either internal disagreement or subsequent unanimity. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under electionGovernment Policy Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,639 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Section 144B Procedure Mandatory; Non-Compliant Assessment Is Non-Est: Bombay HC September 29, 2026 SEBI Cannot Penalise Corporate Debtor for Pre-Acquisition Defaults After Resolution: SAT September 29, 2026 ITAT Must Decide Delay Condonation Without HC Observations Influencing It: SC September 29, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law SARFAESI Property Dispute Cannot Stall College Affiliation Process: Madras HC September 29, 2026 Contractual Payment Dispute With Arbitration Clause Not Entertained in Writ: Calcutta HC September 29, 2026 NCLAT Upholds ₹437.02 Lakh Contribution for Fraudulent Round-Tripping Transactions September 29, 2026 Copyright Registration in India: Process, Documents, Benefits and 30-Day Objection Period September 28, 2026 Share Purchase vs. Business Transfer Agreements in M&A Transactions September 28, 2026 Summoning Order Without Examining Director’s Individual Role Set Aside: Delhi HC September 28, 2026