Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The Ministry of Finance has announced that all Public Sector Banks and Regional Rural Banks will function normally on Sunday, 27 September 2026, to safeguard the banking requirements of customers ahead of a proposed nationwide bank strike. The United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has called for a three-day nationwide strike from 28 September to 30 September 2026. As the proposed strike immediately follows the weekend holidays of 26 and 27 September, the Government has taken steps to prevent genuine banking requirements of the public from being affected for an extended period. Accordingly, Public Sector Banks and Regional Rural Banks will remain operational on Sunday, 27 September 2026. The Reserve Bank of India has granted approval for all bank branches, offices, ATM-link branches and Currency Chests to remain fully operational on that date. The Department has reiterated that the welfare and convenience of bank customers remains the Government’s foremost priority. In addition to arranging for banking operations on Sunday, the Government and bank managements have appealed to the unions to defer the proposed strike. Measures have also been taken to ensure that essential banking services continue uninterrupted during the relevant period. Ministry of Finance Banks to remain open on Sunday, 27th September, for convenience of customers Posted On: 23 SEP 2026 In view of the proposed three-day nationwide bank strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) from September 28 to 30, 2026, coinciding with the preceding weekend holidays of September 26 and 27, the government has taken proactive steps to safeguard the banking needs of citizens. In order to ensure that the genuine banking needs of the public are not adversely affected for an extended period, all Public Sector Banks and Regional Rural Banks will function normally on Sunday, the 27th of September, 2026. The Reserve Bank of India has granted approval for all bank branches, offices, ATM-link branches and Currency Chests to remain fully operational on 27.09.2026. The Department reiterates that the welfare and convenience of bank customers remains the Government’s foremost priority. The Government and bank managements have appealed to unions to defer the proposed strike, and have also taken measures to ensure that essential banking services continue un-interrupted. *** Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Government Policy Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Fema / RBI FEMA NOC Rejection Without Investigation Nexus Set Aside: Karnataka HC September 23, 2026 Incomplete Bank Trail Fails to Lift NDPS Property Freeze: SAFEMA Tribunal September 23, 2026 Pre-Offence Property Can Be Attached as Equivalent Value Under PMLA: SAFEMA September 23, 2026 Unregistered Vehicle Purchaser Cannot Challenge NDPS Freezing: SAFEMA Tribunal September 23, 2026 Overseas Foreign Currency Accounts for Exporters: FEMA Compliance and Risks September 23, 2026 NRI Rights Issue on Non-Repatriation Basis: Is Valuation Report Required? September 23, 2026