Summary: Section 113(1) of the CGST Act empowers GSTAT, while deciding a second appeal, to confirm, modify or annul the decision appealed against or refer the matter back to the Appellate Authority with directions for fresh adjudication. Where an appeal before the first Appellate Authority was filed within the aggregate four-month period contemplated by Section 107(4), GSTAT can examine whether the authority properly exercised its discretion to condone delay. The more difficult issue arises where the delay itself exceeds that outer statutory period. High Courts have taken conflicting approaches. The Calcutta High Court, including in S.K. Chakraborty & Sons v. Union of India, has treated Section 5 of the Limitation Act as applicable because its operation has not been expressly or impliedly excluded. Kerala High Court in Penuel Nexus Pvt. Ltd. and Rajasthan High Court in M R Traders have adopted the contrary view that Section 107(4) imposes a jurisdictional limit upon the statutory Appellate Authority. The distinction is particularly significant for GSTAT because it too is a statutory tribunal rather than a constitutional court exercising Article 226 jurisdiction. Consequently, where delay genuinely exceeds the statutory ceiling, GSTAT’s power to condone remains contested, making proceedings before the jurisdictional High Court the stronger remedy in jurisdictions adopting the restrictive interpretation. GSTAT’s Power To Condone Delay: What To Expect? Section 113(1) of the CGST Act expressly empowers GSTAT to: “…pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit, confirming, modifying or annulling the decision or order appealed against or may refer the case back to the Appellate Authority… with such directions as it may think fit, for a fresh adjudication or decision…” This gives GSTAT full jurisdiction, while hearing the second appeal, to test whether the first Appellate Authority correctly applied Section 107(4) and, if not, to set aside that order and remand for a decision on merits. This is not an “enlargement” of GSTAT’s own limitation but a correction of an error of law/discretion committed by the lower forum, which falls squarely within GSTAT’s ordinary appellate function. Table of Contents▸ Delay Beyond the Outer Statutory Cap (More Than 4 Months) — The Contested Terrain View 1 — Section 5 of the Limitation Act Applies to the Statutory Scheme Itself View 2 — Statutory Authorities, Including GSTAT, Cannot Go Beyond the Cap Implication for GSTAT Specifically Practical Conclusion My Opinion Recommendation Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Delay Beyond the Outer Statutory Cap (More Than 4 Months) — The Contested Terrain Where the delay before the first Appellate Authority exceeded the four-month aggregate ceiling under Section 107(4), the legal position on whether any authority short of a constitutional court, such as a tribunal, can condone such delay is genuinely divided. View 1 — Section 5 of the Limitation Act Applies to the Statutory Scheme Itself The Calcutta High Court, in a consistent line of decisions, has held that Section 107 does not expressly or impliedly exclude Section 5 of the Limitation Act, through Section 29(2) of that Act. Therefore, the Appellate Authority itself possesses power to condone delay beyond the four-month cap upon sufficient cause: S.K. Chakraborty & Sons v. Union of India (Calcutta HC, Division Bench): “Since provisions of Section 5 of the Act of 1963 have not been expressly or impliedly excluded by Section 107… Section 5 of the Act of 1963 stands attracted.” Arvind Gupta v. Assistant Commissioner, Anand Kumar Hirawat v. Senior JC, Green Filed Agrotech v. State of West Bengal, Mukul Islam v. Assistant Commissioner and Snehasish Paul v. Assistant Commissioner — all reaffirm this position, holding that the AA, and not merely the High Court, is not “denuded of its power” to condone delay beyond one month over the prescribed period. If this line is followed in the relevant jurisdiction, GSTAT, while reviewing the AA’s refusal to consider condonation on the ground of “no jurisdiction”, could hold that the AA’s order suffers from the same infirmity identified in these cases, condone the delay, and remand under Section 113(1). View 2 — Statutory Authorities, Including GSTAT, Cannot Go Beyond the Cap A contrary and analytically significant line of reasoning draws a sharp distinction between the power of a statutory authority, as a “creature of statute”, and the plenary constitutional power of a High Court under Article 226: Penuel Nexus Pvt. Ltd. v. Additional Commissioner (Kerala HC): Relying on Singh Enterprises v. CCE [(2008) 3 SCC 70] and CCE & Customs v. Hongo India (P.) Ltd. [(2009) 5 SCC 791], held that the CGST Act is a self-contained code; the Appellate Authority has no jurisdiction to condone delay beyond the statutory maximum; and Section 5 of the Limitation Act stands impliedly excluded. M/s M R Traders v. Union of India (Rajasthan HC, Division Bench): Explicitly disagreed with the Calcutta High Court’s S.K. Chakraborty reasoning, holding that Section 107(4) operates as a jurisdictional cap, not merely a procedural guideline. The Court also held that, while the High Court under Article 226 retains plenary power to condone such delay, such constitutional elasticity cannot be transposed into the statutory framework governing the Appellate Authority. Implication for GSTAT Specifically GSTAT is itself a statutory tribunal, not a constitutional court exercising Article 226 powers. Under the reasoning in M R Traders and Penuel Nexus, GSTAT would fall on the same restrictive side as the first Appellate Authority. Therefore, if the delay before the AA exceeded the four-month outer cap, GSTAT, being equally a “creature of statute” deriving its jurisdiction from Section 112, which contains an identical cap structure, would not have inherent power to invoke Section 5 of the Limitation Act to override that cap, unless the jurisdiction in question is governed by the Calcutta High Court’s contrary binding precedent treating Section 5 as available to the statutory authority itself. Practical Conclusion Situation Likely position before GSTAT Delay before AA was within the four-month statutory cap, but AA mechanically or erroneously rejected it without judicious exercise of discretion. GSTAT can correct the error, condone the delay itself, and remand under Section 113(1). There is no jurisdictional bar. Delay before AA exceeded the four-month cap; jurisdiction governed by the Calcutta High Court precedent in the S.K. Chakraborty line. GSTAT may hold the AA’s blanket refusal on grounds of “no jurisdiction” to be erroneous, condone delay applying Section 5 of the Limitation Act, and remand. Delay before AA exceeded the four-month cap; jurisdiction governed by Kerala High Court in Penuel Nexus or Rajasthan High Court in M R Traders. GSTAT, being a statutory creature with no Article 226-equivalent power, would likely decline to condone. The stronger remedy is a writ petition before the jurisdictional High Court. The outcome will depend on whether that High Court follows the liberal Calcutta or restrictive Kerala/Gujarat approach, fortified by Glaxo SmithKline. My Opinion Personally, I do not agree with the view expressed by the Calcutta High Court in S.K. Chakraborty, even though it is in favour of taxpayers who genuinely missed the appeal. In M R Traders, the Rajasthan High Court has, in my view, rightly distinguished this decision because Section 107 is a complete and specific code in itself. It separately prescribes the period of limitation with a one-month condonation window. Moreover, the AA is a creature of the statute and is therefore bound by it. As laid down by the Rajasthan High Court, any omission to expressly or impliedly exclude the applicability of Section 5 of the Limitation Act cannot be construed to extend the powers of the first AA beyond the one-month condonation window. Recommendation Given this unsettled position, it would be prudent to argue before GSTAT, as a primary submission, that the AA’s rejection was itself flawed in law due to failure to properly compute limitation, ignore the explanation, or exercise discretion within the permissible window. If the physical copy of the order was not served on the appellant, and the order was not communicated to the appellant because the registered email ID and mobile number belonged to the consultant, the better argument before GSTAT could be that the limitation prescribed under Section 107 runs from the date of communication of the order to the appellant and not from mere portal upload. GSTAT can then exercise its appellate jurisdiction under Section 113 to interfere and remand the matter back to the AA, particularly where the first Appellate Authority has erred in appreciating the facts and calculating the limitation period from the date of knowledge. If the delay genuinely exceeds the outer statutory limit, the stronger and safer remedy remains a writ petition before the High Court, particularly where strong merits and non-service of the order are pleaded together. These factors have independently persuaded courts to adopt an equitable approach. This is preferable to resting solely on GSTAT’s own condonation power, which remains doctrinally contested for delays beyond the four-month ceiling. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGSTAT Author Info Name: ADVOCATE (CS) ABHISHEK GOYAL Qualification: CS Location: bUNDI, Rajasthan Articles Published: 6 View full profile → More from ADVOCATE (CS) ABHISHEK GOYAL Festival Gifts To Employees- A GST And Income Tax Perspective October 31, 2025 Tax Law Amendments: Prospective vs. Retrospective: A legal analysis July 4, 2025 Guwahati HC quashes GST notification no 56/2023: Extensions held Ultra Vires June 20, 2025 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax GST ITC on Inputs and Capital Goods Sent for Job Work September 21, 2026 No GST Recovery During Section 67 Search Proceedings: Gujarat HC September 21, 2026 SC Issues Notice on GST Liability of Cross-LoC Barter Trade September 21, 2026 Single Section 74 SCN for Multiple Financial Years Invalid: Calcutta HC September 21, 2026 IBC Resolution Plan Extinguishes MVAT Dues & Requires Pre-Deposit Refund: Bombay HC September 21, 2026 Uncommunicated Arrest: Liberty and Section 69 of CGST Act, 2017 September 21, 2026