Summary: The obligation to hold an Annual General Meeting (AGM) each year is one of the most basic corporate governance requirements under the Companies Act, 2013. Section 96 requires every private and public company, other than a One Person Company, to hold an AGM each year, with the first AGM required within 9 months from the close of the first financial year and subsequent AGMs within 6 months from the close of each financial year, subject to the requirement that not more than 15 months elapse between two AGMs. For subsequent AGMs, where a company anticipates that it will not be able to meet the statutory timeline, Form GNL-1 may be filed with the jurisdictional ROC seeking an extension of up to 3 months, but the application must be made before the AGM due date. The first AGM cannot be extended through GNL-1. A failure to hold an AGM attracts the consequences under Section 99, including a fine of up to ₹1,00,000 on the company and every officer in default, together with ₹5,000 for each day the default continues. The article also explains the MCA V3 sign-and-reupload workflow for GNL-1, including Board approval, supporting documents, SRN generation, digital signing and re-upload within 15 days. Where an AGM is validly extended and subsequently held, AOC-4 and MGT-7 filing timelines run from the actual extended AGM date. The article further distinguishes proactive GNL-1 relief from the remedy available to members under Section 97 after an AGM default and cautions against treating MCA circulars relating to other forms of relief as blanket extensions of the statutory AGM deadline. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Who Must Hold an AGM, and the Statutory Timelines Form GNL-1: Scope and a Common Misunderstanding Filing Fee for GNL-1 Consequences of Default — Section 99 Filing GNL-1 for an AGM Extension — Procedure on MCA V3 What Happens If the AGM Is Missed Without an Extension Effect on AOC-4 and MGT-7 Timelines A Caution on Claims of a Blanket Extension Conclusion Show all 10 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction The obligation to hold an Annual General Meeting (AGM) each year is one of the most basic corporate governance requirements under the Companies Act, 2013. Section 96 lays down clear timelines for holding an AGM, yet companies continue to run into avoidable difficulty — most commonly by confusing the rules that apply to a company’s first AGM with those that apply to every AGM thereafter, or by assuming that Form GNL-1 can be used to cure a deadline that has already passed. In reality, GNL-1 only works as relief sought in advance of a due date, never as a remedy after the fact. This article walks through the statutory AGM timelines, the scope and limits of the GNL-1 extension, the penalty that follows a default under Section 99, the practical filing steps on the MCA V3 portal, and the knock-on effect an extension has on related annual filings. Who Must Hold an AGM, and the Statutory Timelines Every private and public company is required to hold an AGM every year, with a One Person Company being the sole statutory exception. The permissible time window, however, differs sharply depending on whether the meeting in question is a company’s very first AGM or a subsequent one: First AGM: must be held within 9 months from the close of the company’s first financial year. Section 96 specifically carves the first AGM out of its extension proviso — this 9-month timeline is fixed and cannot be extended under any circumstance. Subsequent AGMs: must be held within 6 months from the close of each financial year, subject additionally to the requirement that not more than 15 months elapse between any two AGMs. Both conditions have to be met together. For a company that closes its books on 31st March, by far the most common financial year-end in India, the 6-month rule fixes the AGM due date at 30th September. Section 8 companies (not-for-profit companies) follow this same 6-month/9-month structure under Section 96; the concession available to them is limited to a shorter notice period for the meeting, and does not touch the AGM due date itself. Form GNL-1: Scope and a Common Misunderstanding Where a company anticipates that it will not be able to hold a subsequent AGM within the 6-month window, Section 96 allows it to apply to the jurisdictional Registrar of Companies (ROC) in Form GNL-1 for an extension of up to 3 months. The point most often missed in practice is timing: GNL-1 has to be filed before the AGM due date arrives. It is relief sought in anticipation of a problem, not a form filed to explain one that has already occurred. Once the due date has passed without an extension already in place, there is nothing left for the ROC to extend, the default under Section 96 stands, and the consequences under Section 99 follow automatically. It is equally important to note that this extension mechanism is available only in respect of subsequent AGMs. The 9-month deadline that applies to a company’s first AGM cannot be extended by GNL-1 or by any other statutory route. Filing Fee for GNL-1 The fee payable for filing GNL-1 follows the standard slab structure applicable based on the company’s authorised share capital, set out below. This fee is payable at the time of filing and is not refunded even if the ROC ultimately declines to grant the extension. Authorised Share Capital Normal Filing Fee Less than ₹1,00,000 ₹200 ₹1,00,000 – ₹4,99,999 ₹300 ₹5,00,000 – ₹24,99,999 ₹400 ₹25,00,000 – ₹99,99,999 ₹500 ₹1,00,00,000 or more ₹600 Consequences of Default — Section 99 Where a company misses its AGM deadline, whether the original date or, where applicable, an ROC-approved extended date, without securing prior relief, Section 99 of the Companies Act prescribes a direct fine, with no intermediate additional-fee structure of the kind seen with certain other filings. Both the company and every officer in default become liable to a fine of up to ₹1,00,000, together with a further ₹5,000 for each day the default continues. This is a matter of prosecution rather than a self-assessed penalty payable without proceedings. Defaults under Sections 96, 97 and 98 fall outside the decriminalisation measures introduced in 2019 and 2020, which converted a number of other Companies Act defaults into penalties that could be paid without going through the court process. A default here continues to attract prosecution in the ordinary course. Filing GNL-1 for an AGM Extension — Procedure on MCA V3 1. Assess the risk early. Well before the Section 96 due date, evaluate realistically whether the AGM can in fact be held within the statutory window. 2. Convene a Board Meeting and pass a resolution recording the specific reason for the anticipated delay, approving the filing of the GNL-1 application, specifying the length of extension sought (up to 3 months), and authorising a director or Company Secretary to sign the application on the company’s behalf. 3. Prepare the application on the company’s letterhead, supported by evidence for the ground relied upon – for example, correspondence with the statutory auditor, a notified calamity, or the company’s CIRP/liquidation status. 4. Log in to the MCA V3 portal as a Business User, open the GNL-1 web-form, and select the AGM-extension purpose from the available options. 5. Attach the Board Resolution, the application letter, and the supporting documentation, and generate the Service Request Number (SRN). 6. Download the system-generated, pre-filled PDF, have it digitally signed by the authorised signatory using a valid Digital Signature Certificate (DSC), and re-upload the signed PDF within 15 days of the SRN being generated. 7. Pay the applicable slab fee and await disposal of the application by the ROC. Since no fixed statutory turnaround time applies, the application should be filed with sufficient time in hand before the due date. This sign-and-reupload workflow, built around SRN generation as the first step, has applied to GNL-1, along with other MCA V3 web-forms, since 14th July 2025, following the retirement of the earlier single-step e-form on 18th June 2025. What Happens If the AGM Is Missed Without an Extension A default under Section 96 exposes the company and every officer in default to the Section 99 fine discussed above. Independently of this, any member of the company, as distinct from the company itself, may apply to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) under Section 97 for a direction that the AGM be called. On such an application, the Tribunal may give directions as it considers appropriate regarding the calling, holding and conduct of the meeting, and may direct that one member present in person or by proxy will constitute a valid meeting for this purpose. GNL-1 and an application under Section 97 operate at different points in time and address different situations: GNL-1 is relief a company seeks proactively, before any default occurs, whereas a Section 97 application to the NCLT is a remedy available to members only once a default has already taken place. Effect on AOC-4 and MGT-7 Timelines Where an AGM is actually held on a date that the ROC has approved as an extension, the filing timelines for AOC-4 (30 days) and MGT-7 (60 days) run from that actual, extended AGM date rather than from the original, unextended due date. Late filing of either form independently attracts a fee of ₹100 per day of delay, with no upper limit, so it is worth confirming the status of an approved extension on the portal before finalising the AOC-4/MGT-7 filing schedule. A Caution on Claims of a Blanket Extension No general circular has extended the Section 96 AGM deadline itself for FY 2025-26. Circulars issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs dealing with meetings conducted through video conferencing or other audio-visual means, and with relief on additional filing fees, both state in terms that they do not alter the statutory AGM due date. Any claim of a blanket, across-the-board AGM extension should be treated with caution unless it can be traced to a specific, identifiable circular. Conclusion Section 96 draws a firm line between a company’s first AGM, where the 9-month deadline is absolute and admits of no extension, and every AGM thereafter, where a company genuinely unable to meet the 6-month timeline may seek up to 3 months’ relief through Form GNL-1 — provided the application reaches the ROC before, and not after, the due date. Because a missed AGM invites prosecution-backed consequences under Section 99 rather than a routine late fee, building AGM tracking into the annual compliance calendar well ahead of time is far preferable to treating GNL-1 as a last-minute option. ****** Disclaimer: This article is for general informational purposes only and reflects the author’s understanding of the position under the Companies Act, 2013 and related MCA rules, forms and circulars at the time of writing. It does not constitute legal or professional advice. Readers should independently verify the applicable position, including any notifications or circulars issued subsequently, before acting on any of the above. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Annual General MeetingCompanies ActCompanies Act 2013 Author Info Name: vijay Ganesh Qualification: CA student, BCom(CA) Location: Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh Articles Published: 21 View full profile → More from vijay Ganesh No Rule 37BA Declaration? TDS Credit Cannot Be Denied: ITAT Jodhpur September 8, 2026 Madras HC Upholds GST ITC Blocking under Rule 86A September 8, 2026 No Arrest Protection After Dismissal of Pre-Arrest Bail Under GST: SC August 13, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law Fast Track Merger Under Section 233: Eligibility, Procedure, Forms and Changes September 17, 2026 Format of Notice of AGM And E-Voting Information September 17, 2026 Company Strike Off Under Section 248: Procedure, Eligibility & STK-2 September 15, 2026 NCLAT Upholds Oppression-Mismanagement Findings in Exclusive Capital NBFC Dispute September 13, 2026 Procedure For Adjudication of Penalties Under Companies Act, 2013 September 12, 2026 Procedure For Transfer of Shares Held In Physical Form In A Private Company September 12, 2026