How the 200-Person Limit in Private Placement Works: Existing Shareholders, Repeat Investors and Separate Counts Brief: Section 42 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with Rule 14(2), ordinarily limits a company’s private placement offers to 200 persons in a financial year for each kind of security. The count is based on persons offered securities, including existing shareholders, even if they do not subscribe. Qualified institutional buyers and employees offered securities under an ESOP are excluded. A repeat offer to the same person for the same kind of security should, on the wording of the provision, count that person once in the annual limit; this remains an interpretation rather than a point settled by a directly applicable ruling. Equity shares, preference shares and debentures have separate counts. The article also explains the distinct 200-member ceiling applicable to private companies and the consequences of exceeding the private placement limit. Table of Contents▸ 1. Short Summary 2. Short Answer 3. Applicable Legal Provisions 4. Relevant Extracts 5. Legal Position The count concerns persons offered securities, not merely allottees Existing shareholders are counted The same investor receives two offers in one year Each kind of security has a separate count The annual count starts afresh each financial year Private companies face a separate membership limit Consequences of exceeding the limit 6. Exclusions and Regulatory Relaxation 7. Case Law and Professional Interpretation 8. Practical Interpretation 9. Example 10. Conclusion Show all 17 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); 1. Short Summary A private placement is made to a selected group of persons. Section 42 of the Companies Act, 2013, sets a base limit of 50 persons, subject to a higher prescribed number. Rule 14(2) prescribes 200 persons in aggregate in a financial year. The apparent simplicity of this limit raises practical questions: Are existing shareholders counted? Is an investor who receives two offers counted twice? Does one limit cover equity shares, preference shares and debentures together? This article addresses those questions and distinguishes the statutory position from the author’s interpretation of repeat offers. 2. Short Answer The general limit is 200 persons in a financial year for each kind of security. It counts persons to whom an offer or invitation is made, whether or not they eventually invest. Existing shareholders count when the transaction is structured as a private placement. The express exclusions are qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) and employees offered securities under an ESOP in terms of Section 62(1)(b). The author’s view is that the same person offered the same kind of security twice during the year counts once towards that kind’s annual limit. Rule 14(2) expressly requires separate counts for equity shares, preference shares and debentures. An offer exceeding the prescribed limit is deemed to be an offer to the public under Explanation III to Section 42 and attracts Section 42(11). 3. Applicable Legal Provisions Section 42(2): A private placement may be made only to persons identified by the Board, subject to the annual numerical limit and the stated exclusions. Explanation III to Section 42: An offer, invitation, allotment or agreement to allot securities to more than the prescribed number of persons is deemed an offer to the public, irrespective of receipt of payment or intention to list. Section 42(5): Ordinarily, a fresh offer cannot be made until an earlier offer has been completed, withdrawn or abandoned. Its proviso permits more than one issue to such class of identified persons, subject to the maximum number under Section 42(2). Section 42(10) and (11): These address the penalty and refund consequences of contravention and the treatment of an issue breaching Section 42(2) as a public offer. Rule 14(2) and its Explanation, Companies (Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014: The general annual limit is 200 persons, reckoned individually for equity shares, preference shares and debentures. Rule 14(4): A complete record of private placement offers must be maintained in Form PAS-5. Rule 14(7): The conditions under which Rule 14(2) does not apply to specified NBFCs and housing finance companies. Section 2(68): A private company’s separate limit of 200 members, subject to the exclusions and counting rules in that provision. 4. Relevant Extracts Section 42(2), in substance, restricts private placement to persons identified by the Board, whose number must not exceed 50 or the higher prescribed number in a financial year, excluding QIBs and employees offered securities under an ESOP in terms of Section 62(1)(b). The Explanation to Rule 14(2) clarifies that the restriction is reckoned individually for each kind of security: equity share, preference share or debenture. Explanation III to Section 42 provides for a deemed public offer where securities are offered, invitations are made, securities are allotted, or agreements to allot are entered into with more than the prescribed number of persons, whether payment has been received or not. 5. Legal Position The count concerns persons offered securities, not merely allottees If a company sends private placement offers to 220 persons and only 60 subscribe, the low subscription does not cure the excess. Explanation III to Section 42 addresses the offer or invitation itself and applies whether payment has been received or not. The company must therefore check its count before circulating the offer-cum-application letters. Existing shareholders are counted Section 42(2) does not exclude existing shareholders. If a company makes a private placement offer to 150 existing shareholders and 60 other persons for the same kind of security during one financial year, its count reaches 210. A genuine rights issue under Section 62(1)(a) follows a different statutory route; it should not be described as a Section 42 private placement merely because existing shareholders receive the offer. The same investor receives two offers in one year Suppose Mr X receives an equity share offer in May and another in November of the same financial year. Rule 14(2) refers to “persons more than two hundred in the aggregate in a financial year”, while the proviso to Section 42(5) permits more than one issue to a class of identified persons, subject to the maximum number. On that wording, the author’s view is that Mr X counts once in the annual equity-share tally, although both offers must be recorded separately. No directly applicable reported ruling has been identified that conclusively decides this repeat-offeree question. A company approaching the limit should obtain transaction-specific advice instead of treating the interpretation as settled law. Repeated offers must independently comply with Section 42(5). An earlier offer must ordinarily be completed, withdrawn or abandoned before a fresh offer is made, subject to the proviso in that subsection. Each kind of security has a separate count The Explanation to Rule 14(2) expressly reckons the restriction individually for equity shares, preference shares and debentures. Accordingly, a person offered both equity shares and compulsorily convertible preference shares (CCPS) appears in both relevant counts. Situation in one financial year Equity-share count Preference-share count Debenture count 180 persons offered equity shares 180 0 0 The same 180 persons also offered CCPS 180 180 0 Mr X offered equity shares twice during the year 1 person, on the author’s interpretation 0 0 Mr Y offered equity shares and debentures 1 0 1 A qualifying QIB offered debentures 0 0 0: excluded from the limit An employee offered securities under a qualifying ESOP 0: excluded from the limit 0 0 The annual count starts afresh each financial year Rule 14(2) measures the aggregate within a financial year. A person offered a security in an earlier financial year is not carried into the next year’s numerical count merely because of that earlier offer. Private companies face a separate membership limit Section 2(68) generally limits a private company to 200 members, subject to its exclusions and rules for jointly held shares. This is distinct from Section 42: the private placement limit counts persons offered securities of each kind during a financial year, whereas Section 2(68) concerns the company’s membership. A private company proposing an equity or preference issue must check both tests. Consequences of exceeding the limit Explanation III to Section 42 deems an offer exceeding the prescribed number to be an offer to the public. Under Section 42(11), a private placement issue that fails to comply with Section 42(2) is deemed a public offer, bringing the relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956, and the SEBI Act, 1992 into consideration. Section 42(10) provides for a penalty extending to the amount raised through the private placement or ₹2 crore, whichever is lower, and requires refund of monies with interest as specified in Section 42(6) within 30 days of the penalty order. The exact consequences depend on the facts and the orders passed by the competent authorities. 6. Exclusions and Regulatory Relaxation QIBs and employees offered securities under an ESOP in terms of Section 62(1)(b) are expressly excluded from the 200-person calculation. Under Rule 14(7), Rule 14(2) does not apply to the specified RBI-registered NBFCs and housing finance companies if they comply with the relevant regulator’s private placement regulations. The rule’s proviso restores the 200-person condition where the relevant regulator has not specified similar regulations. This relaxation concerns Rule 14(2); it should not be read as a general exemption from every private placement requirement. Section 446B may provide reduced penalties to eligible classes of companies where its conditions are met. It does not increase the permitted number of offerees or remove the deemed-public-offer consequence under Section 42. 7. Case Law and Professional Interpretation Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd. v. SEBI, (2012) 10 SCC 603: The Supreme Court dealt with large-scale offers of optionally fully convertible debentures under the Companies Act, 1956, and directed refund with interest. Its treatment of the substance and scale of an offer is instructive, but its statutory framework and numerical threshold were different. It does not decide whether a repeat offeree should be counted once or twice under the present Rule 14(2). The view that a repeat offeree counts once for the same kind of security within a financial year is the author’s interpretation of the present wording. The company should retain the details of every offer even when it uses a distinct-person tally to monitor the limit. 8. Practical Interpretation Maintain both records: Record every offer in Form PAS-5 and maintain a separate, year-wise tally of distinct persons offered each kind of security. Do not remove a repeated offer from PAS-5. Check before circulation: Reconcile the proposed addressees with the existing tally before issuing each serially numbered PAS-4 offer-cum-application letter. Include existing shareholders: Count them whenever the offer is made under Section 42. Consider a properly structured rights issue where the commercial objective is to offer further shares to existing holders under Section 62(1)(a). Review sequential offers: Check Section 42(5), shareholder approval and the applicable Rule 14 procedure for each proposed issue. Check private-company membership: Assess the resulting number of members separately under Section 2(68). Allow a margin: Seek specific advice before relying on the repeat-offeree interpretation where the distinct-person tally is close to 200. 9. Example RST Ltd., an unlisted public company, sends equity-share offers to 120 persons in June, including 40 existing shareholders. In December, it proposes equity-share offers to 90 persons, 10 of whom were also offered equity shares in June, and CCPS offers to 150 persons. On the author’s distinct-person interpretation, the annual equity-share count is 120 + 90 − 10 = 200 persons. The separate preference-share count is 150 persons. The December equity offer is therefore at the limit on that interpretation. One additional new equity offeree would take the count to 201. The company must also check the procedural requirements governing its successive offers; the numerical calculation alone does not establish compliance. 10. Conclusion The general private placement ceiling is 200 persons per kind of security in a financial year. It applies to persons offered securities, including existing shareholders, regardless of whether they subscribe. QIBs and employees offered securities under a qualifying ESOP are excluded. Equity shares, preference shares and debentures have separate counts. On the author’s interpretation, a person receiving repeat offers of the same kind of security during the year counts once towards that kind’s ceiling, while every individual offer remains part of the company’s records. The author accordingly opines that companies should track distinct offerees separately for each kind of security, preserve a complete offer-by-offer PAS-5 record, and obtain specific advice before relying on repeat-offeree counting at the 200-person boundary. Private companies must also satisfy their separate membership limit under Section 2(68). ***** Author – CS Divesh Goyal, GOYAL DIVESH & ASSOCIATES, Company Secretary in Practice, Delhi. Contact: [email protected]. Disclaimer: This article reflects the author’s interpretation of the provisions discussed and is intended for general information. The law and its application depend on the facts of each transaction. Readers should check the current provisions and obtain professional advice before acting on them. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies Act 2013private placement Author Info Name: CS Divesh Goyal Qualification: CS Company: Goyal Divesh & Associates Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 764 View full profile → More from CS Divesh Goyal Share Application Money Cannot Precede PAS-4 Under Private Placement Rules September 25, 2026 Unstamped or Under-Stamped Form SH-4 Cannot Support Share Transfer Registration September 25, 2026 Partnership Firm Cannot Subscribe to Company MOA Except Section 8 Company September 25, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law MCA Cautions Public Against High-Return Promises by Non-Compliant Nidhi Companies September 24, 2026 ICAI Announces CA Foundation and Intermediate January 2027 Examination Schedule September 24, 2026 Mudra Denim Ordered Into Liquidation After 99.89% CoC Approval: NCLT Mumbai September 24, 2026 Can a Board Meeting and General Meeting Be Held on the Same Day? September 24, 2026 Managing Director Criminal Liability Depends on Statutory & Personal Involvement September 23, 2026 MCA Extends Tenure of Eight NCLAT Members for Five Years September 23, 2026