Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13595 Case Name Radhe Sales Corporation Vs Assistant Commissioner CGST Delhi North (Delhi High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Delhi High Court Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Radhe Sales Corporation Vs Assistant Commissioner CGST Delhi North (Delhi High Court) Personal Hearing Notice Without Officer’s Details Is an Empty Opportunity: Delhi High Court Sets Aside GST Revocation Rejection The Delhi High Court has set aside an order rejecting an application for revocation of cancellation of GST registration because the notice granting personal hearing failed to disclose the identity and particulars of the officer before whom the taxpayer was required to appear. The Court held, in effect, that merely stating that a hearing would be afforded “before the undersigned,” without identifying the concerned officer or place of appearance, did not constitute a meaningful opportunity of personal hearing. The petitioner, Radhe Sales Corporation, was registered under the Goods and Services Tax law. Its GST registration was cancelled by the Department on 22 March 2024 on the ground that, during inspection, the firm was found to be non-existent at its declared place of business. After cancellation, the petitioner filed an application seeking revocation of the cancellation of registration. The application was rejected by an order dated 29 April 2024. The petitioner thereafter approached the Delhi High Court challenging the rejection and seeking an effective opportunity to establish its case before the proper authority. The principal grievance raised before the High Court was not that no hearing had been mentioned in the departmental communication. The petitioner acknowledged that an opportunity of personal hearing was purportedly granted. The real objection was that the notice fixing the hearing did not disclose the name, designation, office address or other particulars of the officer before whom the petitioner was expected to appear. The notice dated 16 April 2024 merely stated that the petitioner had been granted an opportunity of personal hearing before the “undersigned.” However, the notice contained no information identifying who the “undersigned” was. Consequently, the petitioner was left without any effective guidance regarding the authority or office before which it was required to appear and present its case. The High Court examined the notice and found substance in the petitioner’s grievance. Though the notice formally referred to an opportunity of personal hearing, it did not disclose the details of the officer concerned. Therefore, the opportunity offered was incomplete and incapable of being meaningfully exercised. An opportunity of hearing cannot be treated as a ritualistic reference in a notice. The notice must provide sufficient particulars enabling the person concerned to know when, where and before whom the hearing is to take place. Where the authority itself is not identified, the taxpayer cannot reasonably be blamed for not appearing or for failing to avail the supposed opportunity. In the peculiar facts and circumstances, the Court considered it appropriate to provide the petitioner with a fresh and specific opportunity of personal hearing. Instead of merely remanding the matter with a general direction, the Court itself fixed the essential particulars of the hearing. It directed the petitioner to appear before the Superintendent, Range-31, CGST Badli Division, CGST Delhi North, 17-B, IAEA House, IP Estate, New Delhi-110002, on 8 September 2026 at 12:30 p.m. The concerned authority was directed to grant the petitioner a personal hearing and thereafter pass a fresh order on the application seeking revocation of cancellation of GST registration. Consequently, the rejection order dated 29 April 2024 was set aside, and the writ petition was disposed of with the above directions. The Court did not restore the GST registration automatically, nor did it express any opinion on the merits of the allegation that the petitioner was found non-existent during inspection. The issue of revocation was left open for fresh consideration by the proper officer after hearing the petitioner. Thus, the relief granted was procedural but substantial. The petitioner secured a fresh opportunity to place relevant documents and explanations before the identified authority. At the same time, the Department retained the power to decide the revocation application on merits after complying with the requirements of natural justice. Author’s Comments The decision highlights the distinction between a formal opportunity of hearing and an effective opportunity of hearing. A notice stating that the taxpayer may appear before the “undersigned” is of little practical value when the communication does not reveal who the undersigned officer is, where that officer is situated or how the taxpayer should attend the hearing. GST proceedings, particularly cancellation of registration, carry serious civil and commercial consequences. Cancellation may prevent a taxpayer from conducting business in the ordinary course, issuing tax invoices and complying with ongoing contractual obligations. Therefore, applications seeking revocation should not be rejected through vague or mechanically generated communications. At the same time, the judgment should not be read as holding that the cancellation itself was invalid or that the registration must necessarily be restored. The original cancellation was based on the allegation that the firm was found non-existent during inspection. The High Court confined its interference to the defective hearing process adopted while deciding the revocation application. The taxpayer must now utilise the fresh opportunity effectively by furnishing evidence of the genuine existence of the business, possession of the declared premises, books of account, electricity bills, rent or ownership documents, bank statements, invoices, e-way bills and other materials demonstrating actual business activity. The ruling conveys a simple but important principle: when the law grants a personal hearing, the Department must tell the taxpayer clearly before whom, where and when to appear. A hearing notice that conceals the hearing officer’s identity cannot later become the foundation for rejecting the taxpayer’s application. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF DELHI HIGH COURT 1. The Goods and Services Tax Registration of the Petitioner-Firm was cancelled on 22nd March, 2024, on the ground that, upon inspection, the Petitioner-Firm was found to be non-existent. Subsequently, the Petitioner filed an application seeking revocation of the cancellation of its Goods and Services Tax (GST) Registration, which was dismissed on 29th April, 2024. 2. Learned Counsel appearing for the Petitioner submits that, although the Petitioner was granted an opportunity of personal hearing, the notice fixing the personal hearing did not disclose the details of the officer before whom the Petitioner was required to appear. 3. A perusal of the Notice dated 16th April, 2024 reveals that the Petitioner was, in fact, granted an opportunity of hearing before the undersigned. However, the said Notice does not disclose the details of the undersigned. 4. In the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case, the Respondents are directed to grant an opportunity of personal hearing to the Petitioner before the Superintendent, Range-31, CGST Badli Division, CGST Delhi North, 17 B, IAEA House, IP Estate, New Delhi 110002 on 08.09.2026 at 12:30 P.M. and thereafter pass a fresh order on the Petitioner’s application seeking revocation of cancellation of its GST Registration. 5. Consequently, the Order dated 29th April, 2024, is set aside. 6. The present Petition stands disposed of in the aforesaid terms. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgments Author Info Name: CA Vijayakumar Shetty Qualification: CA in Practice Company: Shetty & Co, Chartered Accountants, Mangalore Location: Mangalore, Karnataka Articles Published: 6,582 View full profile → More from CA Vijayakumar Shetty Kerala HC Rejects Civil Suit After DRT Loss Over Post-Mortgage Lease September 22, 2026 False Stock Declarations Justify Complete Insurance Claim Repudiation: SC September 22, 2026 Allahabad High Court orders SBI to refund wife’s FD appropriated for deceased husband’s loan September 22, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Corporate Guarantee GST: Can Taxable Event Recur Every Year? Gujarat HC September 22, 2026 Multi-Year Section 74 GST Notices: High Courts Split on Composite SCNs September 22, 2026 Prior CGST Proceedings Not Barred by Subsequent SGST Action: Delhi HC September 22, 2026 GST After Nine Years: Has India’s Tax Reform Delivered Its Promises? September 22, 2026 GST Portal to Be Activated Within 48 Hours If Registration Found Bona Fide: Calcutta HC September 22, 2026 Physical GST Revocation Filing Allowed if Online Filing Fails: Telangana HC September 22, 2026