#AD Some people are looking for a courier from India to Canada for the first time and get a bit lost in the details. Others have sent something before but forgot how it all works. Either way, the same confusion usually comes up: who does what, when do you pay, and how long do you wait? The first and most important thing: you pay for this service in Canada, not in India. So the person packing and handing off the item in Delhi or Mumbai doesn’t pay anything. You can see exactly how this works in practice on the Meest Canada website. This courier from India to Canada, with years of experience shipping parcels to 60+ countries, offers this kind of delivery when you pay in Canada. Let’s see if it works for you. Table of Contents▸ Who Actually Pays for a Parcel to Canada from India What's the Shipping Time from India to Canada Shipping Rates and Charges How to Set Up a Parcel from India, Step by Step Wrap-Up Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Who Actually Pays for a Parcel to Canada from India This is the question people ask the most, so let’s just get it out of the way. It’s pretty simple: the person in Canada fills out the request and agrees to pay, and only after that does someone in India pack up the parcel and send it off. Nobody in India pays anything for the shipping – the person in Canada covers all of it. This works well for families where, say, older parents in India just pack up something nice, and their son or daughter in Canada does the rest. What’s the Shipping Time from India to Canada The exact date really depends on the carrier. But here’s a rough idea: after you submit the request, the parcel gets picked up within a day or two, then the documents get checked, and after that comes the actual trip. Altogether, shipping time usually falls somewhere between two and three weeks. Unless you happen to hit a busy period, like right before the holidays, when everything slows down a bit. Meest Canada, for example, gives a clear timeline: pickup and document checks in India take three to five days, transit takes another seven to ten days, and delivery in Canada adds a few more – 10 to 20 business days in total. Shipping Rates and Charges Shipping rates from India to Canada are mostly based on weight: light documents go at a fixed price, and heavier boxes are charged by the kilogram. So one big parcel is usually cheaper than sending several small ones separately. Also, remember that shipping to Canada from India charges tied to customs: if the declared value of what’s inside is low, you usually won’t have to pay any extra fees in Canada. But if the parcel has something pricey in it, it’s worth checking ahead of time whether there’ll be duty, so the final amount doesn’t come as a nasty surprise. How to Set Up a Parcel from India, Step by Step Shipping parcel from India to Canada isn’t hard at all – the main thing is not to skip any of the steps: 1. The person in Canada fills out the request online and adds their payment details. 2. Someone contacts them to check the details. 3. In India, the parcel gets picked up from the address you gave, and the papers get checked. 4. The box travels to Canada. 5. The person picks it up themselves, or has a courier bring it home. Each of these steps takes its own time, and it’s hard to skip or mix up the order. The system walks you through it step by step, so even someone doing this for the very first time probably won’t get confused. Wrap-Up The main thing to take away from all this: the person in Canada pays, the timing depends on the season and customs, and the rate is based on weight. Once you’ve got these three things figured out ahead of time, it’s a lot easier to plan your shipment and not worry so much while the box is on its way. And if you’re planning to send things regularly, every few months or even more often, it’s worth saving the support contact info and your go-to route right away. Next time, setting it up will take way less time, since you’ll already know the basics. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Government Policy Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Finance Forms 3CA, 3CB & 3CD FAQs for AY 2026-27 October 5, 2026 Solana (SOL): How It Works, Staking, Tax & India Compliance October 5, 2026 UTI Nifty 50 Index Fund: Features, Portfolio, TER, Taxation & Investor Risks October 5, 2026 LIC Jeevan Utsav: Guaranteed Income, Tax Treatment and Key Conditions October 5, 2026 Foreign Assets of Small Taxpayers Disclosure Scheme 2026 – Complete Guide October 5, 2026 Airtel Business unveils India’s first telco-grade communications platform October 5, 2026