Summary: Additional directors appointed under Section 161(1) of the Companies Act, 2013, generally possess the same powers, duties and responsibilities as other directors during their valid tenure. Consequently, they may participate in Board meetings, count towards quorum, approve financial statements and sign them in accordance with Section 134(1). The author also considers whether a company can have a Board consisting entirely of additional directors. The article explains that the Act does not expressly require the presence of a regular director alongside additional directors, although such appointments must be authorised by the articles, made by a validly constituted Board and comply with the minimum number of directors prescribed under Section 149(1). A significant limitation arises from the temporary tenure of additional directors: their office continues only until the next Annual General Meeting (AGM) or the last date on which the AGM should have been held, whichever is earlier. The author recommends completing the approval and signing of financial statements and obtaining shareholder approval for regular appointments before that deadline. The article also discusses the distinction between regular and additional directors, appointment procedures, statutory signing requirements, AGM resolutions and consequences of signing after the expiry of tenure. Reference is made to observations of the Calcutta High Court in the matter of Surendra Kumar Singhi regarding the responsibilities of additional directors. The position concerning a Board composed entirely of additional directors is presented as the author’s interpretation, subject to statutory and procedural compliance. Table of Contents▸ Can Additional Directors Sign Financial Statements? Can a Company Have Only Additional Directors? Applicable Legal Provisions Relevant Extracts Legal Position Case Law Example Conclusion Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Can Additional Directors Sign Financial Statements? Can a Company Have Only Additional Directors? Applicable Legal Provisions Provision What it does in plain words Section 2(34) A director means a director appointed to the Board. It makes no split between additional and regular directors. Section 149(1) A company must have a Board of individuals. The minimum is three directors for a public company, two for a private company and one for an One Person Company (OPC). Section 152(2) A regular director is appointed by the members in a general meeting. Section 161(1) The articles may let the Board appoint an additional director at any time. The person holds office till the next AGM or the last date on which the AGM should have been held, whichever is earlier. Section 134(1) and (6) The Board approves the financial statements. They are then signed by the chairperson (if authorised by the Board) or by two directors, one of whom must be the managing director, if there is one. The CEO, CFO and Company Secretary also sign, wherever appointed. An OPC needs only one director. Section 134(8) Penalty if this section is not followed. Section 160 and 102 Section 160 (notice and deposit) is needed only where a member proposes a person. Section 102 needs an explanatory statement with the AGM notice. Relevant Extracts Section 161(1) (simplified): The articles may give the Board power to appoint any person, other than one who failed to get appointed as a director in a general meeting, as an additional director at any time. He holds office up to the next AGM or the last date on which the AGM should have been held, whichever is earlier. Section 134(1) (simplified): The Board approves the financial statements, and then they are signed on behalf of the Board as shown in the table above. Legal Position Start with the word “director”. Section 2(34) says a director is a person appointed to the Board. Section 161 only tells us how the Board may appoint a person in between two general meetings and for how long that person stays. Nowhere does the Act say an additional director cannot vote, cannot count for quorum or cannot sign. Section 134(1) uses the plain word “directors”, so an additional director is covered. Next, can the whole Board be additional directors? The Act has no rule that at least one director must be a regular director. The author opines that this is allowed, subject to three conditions. First, the articles must authorise the Board to appoint additional directors. Second, the total number of directors must stay within the maximum fixed by the articles and meet the minimum under Section 149(1). Third, the first appointment must be made by a Board that is validly in place, such as the continuing directors. Now the signing and the AGM. The usual sequence is shown below. Stage What happens 1. Board meeting Additional directors attend, count for quorum and approve the financial statements. 2. Signing Two directors (one the managing director, if any) sign, with the CEO, CFO and Company Secretary where appointed. 3. AGM Members adopt the accounts and appoint the additional directors as regular directors by an ordinary resolution. There is one trap. If the AGM is not held by its last due date, the office of every additional director ends on that date, even if they have not been confirmed. Some commentators wonder whether an extension of the AGM from the Registrar changes this. The author opines that the safer view is that the office ends on the original due date, so no one should rely on the extension. Case Law The Calcutta High Court (Justice Shampa Dutt (Paul)) in the matter of Surendra Kumar Singhi observed that additional directors stand on an equal footing with other directors in power, rights, duties and responsibilities. The person had signed financial statements as an additional director and was still held answerable. No ruling declaring a Board of only additional directors invalid was found. Please verify the citation before quoting it. Example Mr A and Mr B are appointed additional directors of a private company on 1 December 2025. The AGM for the year ended 31 March 2026 is due by 30 September 2026. On 5 August 2026 the Board approves the accounts and both sign. On 20 September 2026 the members adopt the accounts and appoint both as regular directors. Everything is valid. If instead the Board met on 15 October 2026 and no AGM was held, their office would have ended on 30 September, and their signatures would be open to challenge. Conclusion The author opines that an additional director is a full director for every purpose, a company may have a Board made up only of additional directors, and they can sign the financial statements under Section 134(1). The author opines that the safer course is to finish the signing and get the members to confirm them at the AGM before the AGM due date, because their office ends on that date. ****** Author – CS Divesh Goyal, GOYAL DIVESH & ASSOCIATES Company Secretary in Practice from Delhi and can be contacted at [email protected]). Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Companies ActCompanies Act 2013 Author Info Name: CS Divesh Goyal Qualification: CS Company: Goyal Divesh & Associates Location: Delhi, Delhi Articles Published: 771 View full profile → More from CS Divesh Goyal Can a Company Receive Initial Share Subscription Money in Cash? October 10, 2026 How to Amend MOA of a Section 8 Company: Is Prior ROC Approval Needed? September 25, 2026 How to Change Name of a Section 8 Company – Steps, Forms and Restrictions September 25, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Company Law Paper Business Demerger Scheme Advances to Shareholder and Creditor Meetings: NCLT Allahabad October 9, 2026 Company Loan Qualifies as Deposit Unless Specifically Excluded: NCLT Allahabad October 9, 2026 NCLT Chandigarh Dispenses with Meetings for Duet India Hotels Demerger October 9, 2026 NCLT Mumbai Approves GE Power Durgapur Business Demerger to JSW Energy, Preserves Tax Scrutiny October 9, 2026 NCLAT Delhi Quashes Unreasoned Interim Order in Section 244 Shareholding Dispute October 9, 2026 NCLT Chandigarh Allows Asics India–Onitsuka Tiger Demerger First Motion October 9, 2026