Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 15061 Case Name Bihar State Food and Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. & Ors. Vs Sadhna Kumari (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Bihar State Food and Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. & Ors. Vs Sadhna Kumari (Supreme Court of India) Summary: The Supreme Court, while dealing with special leave petitions arising from the appointment of arbitrators in disputes involving Bihar State Food and Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd. and rice millers, declined to interfere with the underlying orders except to regulate the conduct of the arbitration proceedings. The Court directed that one arbitrator should not be assigned more than ten matters and that arbitration proceedings in those ten matters must be conducted on a day-to-day basis and concluded within three months. Where an arbitrator had already taken cognizance of more than ten matters, the matters exceeding the limit were required to be sent back to the High Court for appointment of another arbitrator. All arbitration proceedings were directed to be conducted at Patna, while all contentions available to the parties in law were expressly left open for determination by the arbitrator. The Supreme Court further clarified that the pendency of arbitration proceedings would not affect criminal proceedings, including investigation. Thus, the civil/arbitral dispute and the criminal process were permitted to proceed independently. Subject to these directions, the special leave petitions and pending applications were disposed of. The order therefore preserved the arbitration process while ensuring that the appointment and workload of arbitrators did not result in excessive concentration of cases or delay in their disposal. Thereafter, in Review Petition (Civil) Diary No. 17336/2020, the Corporation placed before the Supreme Court an affidavit giving details of the alleged defalcated amounts and litigation costs relating to 174 concluded matters, but the affidavit did not contain details of the awards or final determinations. Taking note also of its order dated 30.09.2020 in SLP (C) No. 10455/2020, the Supreme Court on 15.10.2020 directed that the review petition be listed after disposal of that SLP and required the review petitioner, in the meantime, to furnish the missing particulars concerning the awards/final determinations. The review proceedings were therefore kept pending rather than finally decided. The later Supreme Court judgment in The Managing Director Bihar State Food and Civil Supply Corporation Limited Vs Sanjay Kumar also records that the review petition in Sadhna Kumari was pending pursuant to the direction dated 15.10.2020. FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER Heard learned counsel for the parties. Delay condoned. Having regard the facts and circumstances of the present case, we do not find any ground to interfere except to direct that one arbitrator should not have more than ten matters and arbitration proceedings in such ten matters must be concluded on day to day basis within a period of three months. Wherever an arbitration has taken cognizance in more than ten matters, matters beyond ten matters be referred back to the High Court for appointment of another arbitrator. It is also made clear that pendency of arbitration proceedings will not affect criminal proceedings, including the investigation. All arbitration proceedings will be carried out at Patna. All contentions available under the law to the parties before the arbitrator are left open to be gone into by the Arbitrator in accordance with law. The special leave petitions are, accordingly, disposed of. Pending application(s), if any, shall also stand disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Arbitration and Conciliation Actsupreme court judgements Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 21,307 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi SC Caps Arbitrator at 10 Cases; Arbitration Cannot Halt Criminal Probe October 8, 2026 Year-End Provisions Reversed Without Income Accrual May Escape TDS: ITAT Bangalore October 8, 2026 Audit Report Filed During Assessment Satisfies Section 80-IB Requirement: Allahabad HC October 8, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Predicate Offence Stay Keeps PMLA Attachment in Abeyance: Karnataka HC October 8, 2026 PMLA Proceedings Cannot Survive After Predicate FIR Is Quashed: Delhi HC October 8, 2026 PFRDA Revises Exception & Audit Report Frequency for NPS, APY PoPs October 7, 2026 Income Tax Refund Cannot Be Adjusted Against Tax Dues During IBC Moratorium: NCLT Hyderabad October 7, 2026 SC Refuses Writ Interference Where Income Tax Appeal Remedy Was Available October 7, 2026 Allahabad HC Stays Society Audit Order Over ₹1.50 Lakh Plus GST Fee October 7, 2026