Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); ummary: The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), through Press Release No. 61/2026, released the “Samajh Se Investing Simple” campaign under Project Jagrook at Panjab University, Chandigarh on 5 October 2026 during World Investor Week (WIW) 2026. Project Jagrook is a nationwide financial-literacy campaign integrating physical and digital channels and involving Securities Market Partners including NISM, BSE, NSE, MCX, CDSL, NSDL and AMFI. The 10th edition of World Investor Week is being observed in India from 5–11 October 2026 with “Samajh Se Investing Simple” as its theme. The campaign seeks to simplify investing through education and awareness, encourage investors to understand investment products and associated risks, verify investment platforms and payment requests, and make informed and responsible investment decisions. SEBI also rolled out the “Mentoring of University/College Students by Trainers (MUST)” initiative, under which nominated faculty, staff or senior students will be trained and certified as Partner Trainers to promote basic financial literacy, informed investing and prevention of financial fraud within educational institutions. SEBI is collaborating with the Association of Indian Universities for wider adoption. SEBI further announced its official presence on WhatsApp, accessible through 1800 22 7575 with a verified blue tick. The release also highlights continuing Project Jagrook initiatives and an investor-awareness exhibition at Panjab University featuring securities-market artwork, interactive activities and investor-protection information. 1791210984403 1791210984403 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA Press Releases No. 61/2026 SEBI Releases “Samajh Se Investing Simple” Campaign under Project Jagrook, Rolls Out the MUST initiative, Announces Its Presence on WhatsApp and Other Initiatives for Investor Awareness and Education The Project Jagrook had been launched by the Hon’ble Union Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman as a comprehensive, nationwide campaign that integrates both physical and digital pathways to enhance financial literacy. The project adopts a multi-linguistic and multi-channel approach to promote financial literacy, informed investment practices and prevent financial fraud This unified mission is being driven by SEBI in collaboration with key Securities Market Partners (SMPs) including National Institute of Securities Market (NISM), Stock Exchanges (BSE, NSE, MCX), Depositories (CDSL and NSDL) and Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) released the ‘Samajh Se Investing Simple’ campaign under Project Jagrook at Panjab University, Chandigarh on 5th October 2026 on the occasion of World Investor Week (WIW) 2026. World Investor Week 2026 The 10th edition of WIW, organised annually under the aegis of the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), is being observed in India from October 05 to 11, 2026 on the theme ‘Samajh Se Investing Simple’. ‘Samajh Se Investing Simple’ is an integrated investor awareness and education campaign, which is being undertaken by SEBI and Securities Market Partners (SMPs) viz., the Stock Exchanges, Depositories, Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) and National Institute of Securities Markets (NISM). The campaign ‘Samajh Se Investing Simple’ seeks to simplify investing through investor education and awareness, encouraging informed and responsible investment decisions. The campaign encourages investors to understand different investment products, their risks and features, verify the authenticity of investment platforms and payment requests, and making informed investment decisions. Launch of ‘MUST’ initiative SEBI rolled out the ‘Mentoring of University/College Students by Trainers (MUST)’ initiative to strengthen financial literacy and awareness about the securities market among students. Under MUST, nominated faculty, staff or senior students will be trained and certified by SEBI, SMPs and NISM as Partner Trainers (PTs) to impart financial literacy and awareness about the securities market within University/College premises. The initiative will focus on basic financial literacy, informed investing and prevention of financial frauds. SEBI is also collaborating with the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) to facilitate wider adoption of Project Jagrook and MUST across universities and educational institutions. A student-focused, interactive leaflet has been introduced under the MUST initiative to simplify investing by comparing it to a trek. The leaflet features a “Spot the Differences” game to encourage good investor habits. The guide highlights how both journeys share ups and downs, emphasizing preparation as the key to navigating them effectively. SEBI’s official WhatsApp presence SEBI announced its official presence on WhatsApp to provide investor awareness information and resources through a widely used digital platform. The official SEBI WhatsApp Channel can be accessed through 1800 22 7575 and will carry a verified blue tick to help users identify the authentic account. Other On-going Initiatives In addition, SEBI, along with SMPs, continues to undertake initiatives under Project Jagrook to spread financial literacy and investor awareness across the country, in collaboration with State/UT Governments and the Ministry of Panchayati Raj. Investor Awareness Exhibition at Panjab University As part of the event, an investor awareness art exhibition was organised on the university campus. It featured paintings on various aspects of the securities market and different investment avenues. Participating SMPs also set up stalls with interactive games, quizzes and information on investor-centric initiatives. These gave students and visitors an engaging way to learn about investing, investor rights and protection against financial frauds. The event also coincided with the inauguration of the SEBI Chandigarh Local Office and was attended by senior officials of SEBI, Panjab University, the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) and Securities Market Partners (SMPs). – – Samajh Se Investing Simple MUST Initiative SEBI’s Official WhatsApp Channel Mumbai October 05, 2026 Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under SEBISEBI notifications Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in SEBI SEBI Opens Chandigarh Local Office for Punjab, Haryana & Chandigarh October 6, 2026 SEBI Mandates Investor Awareness Messages on Broker Websites and Apps From November 1 October 1, 2026 SEBI Revamps Document Number Verification System for Authentication of Letters and Notices October 1, 2026 SEBI Renews Recognition of BSE Clearing for Three Years from October 3, 2026 September 29, 2026 Public InvIT Listing Requires Early Review of Structure, Compliance & Governance September 29, 2026 Public InvIT Listing Requires Financial, Valuation, Borrowing & Disclosure Readiness September 29, 2026