PCAOB Announces New Audit Practitioner Fellows WASHINGTON, Sep. 15, 2026 The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) today announced that Addison (Addi) Scott and Zian Xi have been named as the two Audit Practitioner Fellows, as part of the recently launched Audit Practitioner Fellowship Program within the PCAOB’s Office of the Chief Auditor. Effective immediately, Ms. Scott and Ms. Xi will serve two-year terms supporting the Board’s standard-setting and research agendas, bringing recent audit experience to strengthen the PCAOB’s oversight activities and advance the public interest. “Standards are the foundation of the PCAOB’s work, establishing the rules of the road for auditors of public companies and SEC-registered brokers and dealers, providing the framework against which we conduct inspections and, where appropriate, pursue enforcement. However, to develop principles-based standards that are scalable, practical, and effective, we need a clear understanding of today’s audit environment.” said PCAOB Chairman Demetrios (Jim) Logothetis. “Addi and Zian will provide real-world insights to help us develop standards that improve audit quality while appropriately balancing costs and benefits.”Before joining the PCAOB in September 2026, Ms. Scott spent more than 11 years with Ernst & Young (EY), including three years in the firm's Professional Practice Group focused on audit methodology and the implementation of PCAOB, AICPA, and international auditing and quality management standards. She later served as a Senior Manager in EY's assurance practice. Ms. Scott holds degrees in accountancy, accounting and finance, and international business economics from the University of Arkansas and is a Certified Public Accountant licensed in Arkansas.Prior to joining the PCAOB in July 2026, Ms. Xi was a Senior Manager in Deloitte & Touche LLP's national office, specializing in audit transformation, data and technology, artificial intelligence, and technical consultations on audit evidence, audit sampling, and related parties. Ms. Xi holds a Bachelor of Science in Accounting from Rutgers University and is a Certified Public Accountant licensed in New Jersey and Illinois.Learn more about the PCAOB’s standard-setting activities on the PCAOB website. *****About the PCAOBThe PCAOB is a nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee the audits of public companies in order to protect investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. The PCAOB also oversees the audits of brokers and dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including compliance reports filed pursuant to federal securities laws. Related Topics About the PCAOB