Summary: Input Tax Credit (ITC) is a fundamental feature of GST, but GST paid on every legitimate business expense is not necessarily available as credit. Section 16 of the CGST Act, 2017 establishes the general entitlement to ITC, subject to statutory conditions, while Section 17(5) specifically blocks credit for prescribed categories of goods and services. Major areas include specified motor vehicles, food and catering, certain employee benefits, club and fitness memberships, vacation travel benefits, construction of immovable property, goods lost, stolen, destroyed or written off, gifts and free samples, personal consumption and specified CSR expenditure. Several blocked-credit provisions contain exceptions, making transaction-specific examination essential. Construction-related ITC has generated significant litigation, particularly in Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Limited, where the Supreme Court examined Section 17(5)(c) and (d) and the expression “plant or machinery.” The subsequent legislative amendment replacing “plant or machinery” with “plant and machinery” in Section 17(5)(d), retrospectively from 1 July 2017, is also significant. Businesses must further distinguish permanently blocked credit from ITC reversals and correctly report ineligible credits in GST returns. Invoice-level review, documentation of statutory exceptions, reconciliations and monitoring amendments, CBIC circulars and judicial developments are therefore important for avoiding incorrect ITC claims. Table of Contents▸ Introduction I. General Framework of ITC II. Motor Vehicles III. Food, Catering and Employee Benefits IV. Club Membership and Vacation Travel V. Construction and Immovable Property VI. Safari Retreats: Judicial Development VII. Legislative Development After Safari Retreats VIII. Lost, Stolen, Destroyed or Written-Off Goods IX. Gifts and Free Samples X. Personal Consumption XI. CSR Expenditure XII. Blocked Credit and Reversal Are Different XIII. Practical Compliance Challenges XIV. Critical Discussion Conclusion and Suggestions References / Footnotes Show all 17 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Input Tax Credit (ITC) is a central feature of India’s Goods and Services Tax system. A registered taxpayer can generally claim credit for GST paid on goods or services used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of business, subject to statutory conditions. The mechanism is intended to reduce the cascading effect of taxation. However, business use alone does not guarantee ITC. The Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act) specifically excludes certain categories of expenditure from credit. These restrictions are principally contained in Section 17(5) and are commonly known as blocked credits. This distinction is important because an expense may be legitimate for accounting purposes and still be ineligible for ITC. This blog examines the major blocked-credit categories, relevant exceptions, construction-related credit, the Supreme Court’s decision in Safari Retreats, and practical compliance issues. I. General Framework of ITC Section 16 of the CGST Act provides the general basis for claiming ITC. A registered person may claim input tax credit on goods or services used or intended to be used in the course or furtherance of business, provided the statutory conditions are satisfied. Section 17(5), however, places specific restrictions on this general entitlement. Therefore, determining ITC eligibility requires two stages: first, checking the conditions under Section 16, and second, checking whether the particular supply falls within a blocked category under Section 17(5). Thus, the expression “business expense” should not be treated as automatically equivalent to “ITC-eligible expense.” II. Motor Vehicles ITC is generally restricted for specified motor vehicles used for transportation of persons, particularly vehicles having an approved seating capacity of not more than thirteen persons including the driver. The restriction contains important exceptions. Credit may be available where the vehicle is used for further supply of such vehicles, transportation of passengers, or imparting training in driving them. For example, a company purchasing a car for executive use may face the restriction, while a business purchasing qualifying vehicles for further taxable supply may fall within an exception. The legal treatment therefore depends on both the nature and purpose of the transaction. III. Food, Catering and Employee Benefits Section 17(5) restricts ITC relating to specified supplies including food and beverages, outdoor catering, certain health services, club or fitness-centre memberships, and specified insurance and employee benefits. The restrictions are not absolute in every situation. An important exception applies where an employer is legally required to provide particular goods or services to employees. CBIC Circular No. 172/04/2022-GST clarified the application of this proviso. Businesses should therefore examine the exact nature of an employee-related expense and determine whether a statutory exception applies instead of treating every such expense as automatically blocked. IV. Club Membership and Vacation Travel GST paid on membership of clubs, health centres and fitness centres is another category that is ordinarily restricted. Similarly, ITC is generally unavailable for travel benefits provided to employees on vacation, including leave or home-travel concession. The legislation nevertheless recognizes the relevance of a legal obligation imposed on the employer when determining the applicability of the relevant exception. These provisions reveal the policy underlying many blocked-credit categories. Parliament has drawn a line between the general business-input credit mechanism and certain expenditures that may involve consumption or employee benefits, while still providing exceptions in defined circumstances. V. Construction and Immovable Property Construction-related ITC is one of the most significant areas under Section 17(5). Section 17(5)(c) restricts ITC on works contract services used for construction of immovable property, subject to the statutory exception concerning further supply of works contract services. Section 17(5)(d) also restricts credit on goods or services received for construction of immovable property on the taxpayer’s own account, subject to the statutory framework concerning plant and machinery. The practical issue arises when a business constructs a commercial property and incurs GST on materials, engineering services and other inputs. Even if the completed property is subsequently used to generate taxable income, the existence of taxable output does not by itself remove the restrictions under Section 17(5). VI. Safari Retreats: Judicial Development The Supreme Court’s decision in Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Limited, 2024 INSC 756, is important in understanding construction-related ITC. The dispute concerned a shopping mall constructed for letting out commercial premises. GST was incurred during construction, while GST was also payable on the subsequent renting activity. The question included whether construction-related credit could be claimed in these circumstances. The Supreme Court considered the interpretation and constitutional validity of Section 17(5)(c) and (d). It also examined the expression “plant or machinery” and considered whether a building could, depending on its function and the facts, qualify as a plant. The decision illustrates that ITC is a statutory entitlement operating within the limits prescribed by the GST legislation. It also shows the difficulty that can arise when a business input is closely connected with taxable outward supplies but is expressly restricted by Section 17(5). VII. Legislative Development After Safari Retreats The statutory position subsequently changed. Section 17(5)(d) was amended so that the expression “plant or machinery” was replaced with “plant and machinery”, with retrospective operation from 1 July 2017. The amendment also addressed the effect of contrary judgments, decrees or orders. The CGST Act separately defines “plant and machinery” and excludes categories such as land, buildings and other civil structures from that definition. This development is significant because it demonstrates the continuing interaction between judicial interpretation and legislative amendment. For taxpayers, it also highlights the need to verify the current statutory position rather than relying only on an earlier judicial interpretation. VIII. Lost, Stolen, Destroyed or Written-Off Goods Section 17(5) also deals with goods that cease to contribute to ordinary taxable business operations because they have been lost, stolen, destroyed or written off. ITC relating to such goods is restricted. Consider a trader who purchases inventory and initially satisfies the general requirements for ITC. If part of that inventory is subsequently destroyed or written off, the GST treatment cannot simply be determined on the basis that the original purchase was made for business. The specific blocked-credit provision must also be considered. This highlights why businesses need adequate inventory records and internal controls for GST purposes. IX. Gifts and Free Samples Marketing departments frequently distribute products as free samples or gifts to promote a business. From a commercial perspective, such expenditure may be entirely rational because free samples can attract customers and increase future sales. GST law, however, applies its own statutory test. Section 17(5)(h) restricts ITC on goods disposed of by way of gift or free samples. Therefore, establishing that a giveaway was intended to promote the business does not necessarily make the related credit available. This is one of the clearest examples of the difference between an expenditure having a business purpose and being ITC eligible. X. Personal Consumption ITC is also restricted for goods or services used for personal consumption. The purpose of ITC is to operate within the chain of business taxation, not to provide credit for private consumption. Businesses should therefore maintain a clear distinction between genuine business inputs and expenditure that ultimately serves personal purposes. XI. CSR Expenditure Section 17(5) contains a specific restriction concerning goods or services used or intended to be used for activities relating to obligations under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013. This is significant because qualifying companies may undertake CSR expenditure pursuant to a statutory obligation. Nevertheless, the existence of that corporate obligation does not automatically create an entitlement to GST credit where the CGST Act specifically restricts it. The example reinforces the principle that ITC eligibility must be determined under GST law rather than solely by reference to the commercial or statutory purpose of an expenditure. XII. Blocked Credit and Reversal Are Different Blocked ITC and reversal of ITC should not be treated as identical concepts. Blocked credit refers to a category for which the law restricts or denies ITC, particularly under Section 17(5). Reversal can instead involve credit that was otherwise available but has to be reversed because of another statutory provision or rule. This distinction is also relevant when reporting ITC in Form GSTR-3B. CBIC has issued guidance concerning the reporting of ineligible ITC and reversals. Correct classification helps businesses avoid reporting discrepancies and reduces the possibility of questions during scrutiny or audit. XIII. Practical Compliance Challenges The main compliance difficulty is that accounting treatment and GST treatment do not always coincide. An expense may be completely legitimate from an accounting perspective while the GST paid on it remains blocked. Another difficulty is the presence of exceptions. Businesses must examine the exact statutory provision, purpose of use and relevant exception rather than applying broad assumptions. Documentation is also important where a taxpayer relies on an exception. Businesses can improve compliance by reviewing ITC at the invoice level and separating eligible credit, blocked credit, credit requiring reversal and transactions requiring further examination. Regular reconciliation and monitoring of legal developments can further reduce errors. XIV. Critical Discussion Blocked credits reflect a deliberate limitation within the GST credit mechanism. ITC is intended to reduce cascading and support taxation of value addition, but the legislature has also chosen to exclude specified expenses involving personal consumption, certain employee benefits, gifts and other categories. The difficulty becomes more visible when an expense is strongly connected with taxable business activity but is nevertheless restricted. Construction-related ITC is a clear example: a business may construct an asset that subsequently generates taxable revenue, yet Section 17(5) can restrict credit on the construction expenditure. The Safari Retreats litigation and subsequent legislative amendment demonstrate that GST law is dynamic. Courts interpret statutory provisions, while Parliament may subsequently amend the legislation. Businesses therefore need to consider the current statutory framework together with relevant judicial decisions and official guidance. Conclusion and Suggestions Blocked Input Tax Credit demonstrates that GST does not provide an unrestricted credit for every business expense. Section 16 establishes the general framework for ITC, while Section 17(5) places specific statutory limits on that entitlement. Motor vehicles, certain employee-related supplies, club memberships, vacation benefits, construction expenditure, personal consumption, lost or destroyed goods, gifts, free samples and specified CSR expenditure are among the areas requiring particular attention. The key practical lesson is that a business expense is not automatically an ITC-eligible expense. Businesses should examine each transaction against the statutory conditions, document any applicable exception, correctly distinguish blocked credit from reversals, and keep their compliance systems updated with amendments, CBIC circulars and judicial decisions. A careful invoice-level review can help taxpayers claim the credit permitted by law while reducing the risk of incorrect claims, interest, penalties and disputes. References / Footnotes Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, s. 16. Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, s. 17(5). Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, s. 17(5)(a). Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, s. 17(5)(b). CBIC, Circular No. 172/04/2022-GST, dated 6 July 2022. Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, s. 17(5)(c)–(d). Chief Commissioner of Central Goods and Service Tax & Ors. v. M/s Safari Retreats Private Ltd. & Ors., 2024 INSC 756. Finance Act, 2025 – amendment concerning “plant and machinery” in s. 17(5)(d). Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, s. 17(5)(g)–(h). Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, s. 17(5)(fa). Companies Act, 2013, s. 135. CBIC, Circular No. 170/02/2022-GST, dated 6 July 2022. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTinput tax credit Author Info Name: BHAVYA SAHU Qualification: Student - CA/CS/CMA Location: KOTA, Rajasthan Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Fresh Psyllium Seeds Taxable at 5% GST, Not Exempt: Rajasthan AAR September 23, 2026 Rajasthan AAR Classifies Rubberised Cork Sheets Under HSN 45041010 at 5% GST September 23, 2026 Rajasthan AAR Rejects GTA Exemption Application as Issue Already Pending and Decided September 23, 2026 GST Payable on Mining Royalty by Short-Term Permit Holder: Rajasthan AAR September 23, 2026 FSTP Works Contract Taxable at 12% on 1 June 2022: Rajasthan AAR September 23, 2026 Psyllium Seeds Not Fresh; 5% GST Applies: Rajasthan AAR September 23, 2026