Beyond Turnover Casual Taxable Persons, Non-Residents And Other Mandatory GST Registrations Summary: GST registration under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 is not merely a turnover-based requirement. Although Section 22 provides the general threshold-based framework, Sections 23 and 24 significantly affect the analysis by identifying persons who may not be liable to registration and categories for whom registration can arise because of their legal status, activity or statutory role. Casual Taxable Persons and Non-Resident Taxable Persons illustrate this distinction particularly clearly: temporary or cross-border business activity may attract specialised registration procedures, advance-tax requirements and limited registration validity even though the ordinary turnover analysis may not adequately address the situation. Similar issues arise for inter-State suppliers, persons liable under reverse charge, persons covered by Section 9(5), TDS deductors, agents, Input Service Distributors, e-commerce participants and specified cross-border digital suppliers. The registration framework has also become increasingly technology-driven, including risk-based and simplified mechanisms introduced through amendments to the Rules. Consequently, taxpayers should begin with the facts and legal classification of their activities, read Sections 22, 23 and 24 together, verify applicable Rules and notifications, and only then determine the registration requirement. Turnover remains important, but it is only one component of the wider GST registration architecture. Table of Contents▸ Abstract Keywords PART I – INTRODUCTION 1. The Question That Looks Simple but Is Not 2. A Simple Illustration: The Five-Day Exhibition 3. Why Registration Matters 4. Objectives of This Blog PART II – LEGAL FRAMEWORK 5. Section 22: The General Threshold Rule 6. Section 23: Persons Not Liable in Specified Circumstances 7. Section 24: Compulsory Registration in Specified Cases 8. Casual Taxable Person: A Temporary Business Presence 9. Registration Procedure for a Casual Taxable Person 10. Non-Resident Taxable Person: When the Supplier Is Outside India 11. CTP and NRTP: Similar Purpose, Different Context 12. Inter-State Supplies: The Rule Is More Nuanced Than It Looks 13. Reverse Charge: Registration Is Not Automatically the Same as Tax Liability 14. Section 9(5): The E-Commerce Operator May Become the Taxpayer 15. TDS Deductors: Registration Based on Role 16. Agents and Persons Supplying on Behalf of Others 17. Input Service Distributor: Credit Distribution as a Registration Function 18. E-Commerce: Do Not Treat the Platform and Seller as the Same Person 19. Cross-Border Digital Services: OIDAR and Online Money Gaming PART III – CRITICAL DISCUSSION 20. The Real Difficulty: Classification Before Calculation 21. Pragati Engineers: Why Facts and Location Matter 22. The Compliance Cost Problem 23. Advance Tax Deposit: Security for Revenue, Burden for Business 24. A Human Problem: Businesses Often Discover the Rule Too Late 25. Technology and the New GST Registration Environment 26. Is Faster Registration Always Better? 27. Constitutional and Federal Dimension 28. Common Misconceptions – Corrected 29. A Practical Decision Tree for Taxpayers 30. Illustrations Illustration A – Temporary Exhibition Illustration B – Foreign Supplier Illustration C – Reverse Charge Illustration D – E-Commerce Illustration E – Digital Supplier Outside India PART IV – CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS 31. Conclusion: Turnover Is the Beginning, Not the Whole Story 32. Recommendations 33. Final Practical Checklist References and Research Sources Show all 45 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Abstract GST registration is often explained in one sentence: cross the prescribed turnover threshold and take registration. That explanation is useful, but it is incomplete. The Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 creates a wider registration architecture in which the legal status of the person, the nature and location of the supply, the role played in a transaction and specific statutory notifications can become more important than turnover itself. This is particularly visible in the rules concerning Casual Taxable Persons (CTPs), Non-Resident Taxable Persons (NRTPs), persons liable under reverse charge, tax deductors, agents, Input Service Distributors, electronic-commerce participants and certain cross-border digital suppliers. This blog examines that wider framework through a practical and analytical lens. It begins with the ordinary threshold-based rule under Section 22 and then moves to Sections 23 and 24, because the question “Do I need GST registration?” cannot be answered responsibly by looking at turnover alone. The discussion then focuses on CTPs and NRTPs, including their definitions, advance-tax requirements, limited validity, procedural requirements and the practical difficulties faced by businesses that operate temporarily or across borders. It also examines inter-State supplies, reverse-charge registration, Section 9(5), tax deduction at source, agency arrangements, ISD, e-commerce and digital supplies. The blog further considers recent administrative developments. GST registration is increasingly becoming a technology-led process, with risk-based and simplified mechanisms introduced into the Rules. This creates an interesting balance: the law seeks to bring the right taxpayers into the system without making registration unnecessarily burdensome. The central argument of this blog is therefore simple: turnover remains an important gateway, but GST registration is ultimately a question of legal classification, not merely a question of sales volume. Keywords GST Registration; Casual Taxable Person; Non-Resident Taxable Person; Section 22; Section 24; CGST Act; Reverse Charge; TDS; ISD; E-Commerce; OIDAR; Online Money Gaming; GST Compliance PART I – INTRODUCTION 1. The Question That Looks Simple but Is Not Imagine a small business owner sitting with a calculator and checking the turnover for the year. The number is below the applicable registration threshold. The owner therefore assumes that there is no GST registration requirement. At first sight, the reasoning appears perfectly logical. GST is a consumption tax, and turnover is one of the main triggers used by the legislation. But now change the facts slightly. The same business receives an order from another State. Or it participates in a three-day trade exhibition outside its home State. Or it acts as an agent for another taxable person. Or it becomes liable to deduct GST at source. The turnover has not changed, but the legal position may have. This is the starting point for understanding GST registration beyond turnover. Registration is not designed around one universal test. The CGST Act combines a general threshold rule with exclusions, compulsory-registration categories, special procedures and exemptions. The result is a framework in which the taxpayer must first identify what kind of transaction or role is involved and only then ask whether the ordinary threshold rule controls the situation. 2. A Simple Illustration: The Five-Day Exhibition Consider a furniture manufacturer based in Punjab. The manufacturer has a permanent workshop and showroom in Punjab and normally sells furniture within the State. The annual turnover remains below the applicable threshold. The manufacturer is invited to participate in a five-day furniture exhibition in another State. For the exhibition, the manufacturer transports stock to the venue, sets up a temporary stall and makes taxable sales directly to customers. From a business perspective, this is just another marketing activity. From a GST perspective, however, the facts raise questions about the place from which the supplies are made, the existence of a fixed place of business in the other State, the possibility of a casual taxable person classification, invoicing and registration in that jurisdiction. The business has not suddenly become “large”, but its legal circumstances have changed. The example is deliberately simple because it shows why a turnover-only approach can be misleading. A good GST compliance analysis begins with questions such as: Who is supplying? From where? To whom? What is being supplied? Is the person acting as principal, agent or operator? Is there a special statutory category? Is there a notification that changes the normal rule? 3. Why Registration Matters Registration is not merely the process of obtaining a GSTIN. Once registered, a taxpayer enters the GST compliance system. Depending on the category and circumstances, this can involve tax invoices, returns, payment of tax, maintenance of records, reconciliation, input tax credit conditions and interaction with the GST portal. For a large company, these functions may be handled by a dedicated tax department. For a small enterprise attending a temporary event, the same obligations can be much more demanding. At the same time, the administration has a legitimate reason to require registration from particular categories even where ordinary turnover is not the main trigger. A temporary supplier, foreign supplier or person performing a specialised tax role can otherwise remain outside the information and collection architecture of GST. 4. Objectives of This Blog To explain why GST registration cannot be understood only through the turnover threshold. To examine the relationship between Sections 22, 23, 24, 25 and 27 of the CGST Act. To explain the concepts of Casual Taxable Person and Non-Resident Taxable Person in practical terms. To analyse other mandatory-registration categories and distinguish them from ordinary suppliers. To identify compliance problems faced by small, temporary, foreign and digitally operating businesses. To discuss recent technology-led registration reforms and their implications for taxpayers and tax administration. PART II – LEGAL FRAMEWORK 5. Section 22: The General Threshold Rule Section 22 provides the general starting point for registration. It is the provision most people have in mind when they speak about the GST turnover threshold. The basic idea is straightforward: a person whose aggregate turnover crosses the applicable statutory threshold becomes liable to registration, subject to the detailed provisions of the Act, the nature of supplies and the applicable notifications. The important point for this blog is not to ignore Section 22, but to place it in its proper position. Section 22 is the general rule. Sections 23 and 24 then modify the picture by identifying persons who are excluded, exempted or required to register because of a particular legal status or activity. 6. Section 23: Persons Not Liable in Specified Circumstances Section 23 performs an equally important function. It identifies specified persons who are not liable to registration. The provision is particularly relevant to persons exclusively engaged in supplying goods or services that are wholly exempt or not liable to tax, and to agriculturists to the extent of supplies of produce out of cultivation of land, subject to the statutory wording. The significance of Section 23 becomes clearer when it is read with Section 24. A compulsory-registration clause should not be read as if it exists in isolation from the rest of the Act. The GST Council has also considered the interaction between Section 23 and the compulsory-registration framework, especially in relation to reverse-charge situations. This shows an important interpretive principle: GST registration provisions operate as a system, not as disconnected sections. 7. Section 24: Compulsory Registration in Specified Cases Section 24 is where the phrase “beyond turnover” becomes particularly meaningful. It contains categories of persons who are required to register in specified circumstances, subject to the Act, Rules and applicable exemptions. Category Why it matters Practical question Inter-State taxable suppliers, subject to applicable exemptions The location of supplier and nature of supply can trigger registration rules. Is the supply actually covered by an exemption/notification? Persons liable under reverse charge Liability may arise because the recipient must discharge tax. Is the particular reverse-charge supply covered by an exemption? Section 9(5) persons The ECO may be made liable for specified notified services. Who is legally responsible for the tax? Non-resident taxable persons Special rules apply to persons without a fixed place/residence in India. Does the supplier fall within the NRTP definition? TDS deductors Registration is connected with statutory tax-deduction responsibility. Is the person required to deduct under Section 51? Agents / persons supplying on behalf of others The statutory role can itself become relevant. Who owns the supply and who issues the invoice? Input Service Distributor Registration is linked to distribution of eligible input-service credit. Is the office functioning as an ISD under the current framework? Specified e-commerce participants The operator and supplier have different GST roles. Who collects TCS and who is liable for tax? Specified cross-border digital suppliers Special mechanisms exist for supplies from outside India. Is the supply covered by the relevant IGST/CGST provision? Other notified persons The Government can specify additional classes on the Council’s recommendation. Has a relevant notification been issued? 8. Casual Taxable Person: A Temporary Business Presence Section 2(20) defines a Casual Taxable Person as a person who occasionally undertakes transactions involving supply of goods or services or both in the course or furtherance of business, whether as principal, agent or in another capacity, in a State or Union territory where the person has no fixed place of business. The words “occasionally” and “no fixed place of business” are central. A CTP is not simply a business that happens to make an inter-State sale. The statutory concept is concerned with carrying on taxable business in a State or Union territory without a fixed place of business there. That is why temporary exhibitions, fairs, events and similar arrangements are useful examples. The practical difficulty is that businesses do not always fit neatly into labels. A taxpayer may have a warehouse, rented premises, event space, service location or temporary project office. Whether that arrangement amounts to a fixed place of business is a factual question. A taxpayer should therefore not decide CTP status merely by looking at the duration of the activity. 9. Registration Procedure for a Casual Taxable Person The registration procedure for a CTP is more specialised than ordinary registration. The CGST Rules require the applicant to make an advance deposit of tax in accordance with the special statutory framework before the acknowledgement stage is completed. The application is made through the GST portal, and the special nature of CTP registration is reflected in the registration procedure and validity provisions. The practical lesson is important. A person planning to participate in a taxable event in another State should not wait until the morning of the event to examine GST registration. The application should be planned in advance, estimated taxable supplies should be considered, and the tax-deposit requirement should be built into the event budget. 10. Non-Resident Taxable Person: When the Supplier Is Outside India Section 2(77) defines a Non-Resident Taxable Person as a person who occasionally undertakes transactions involving supply of goods or services or both, whether as principal or agent or in another capacity, but who has no fixed place of business or residence in India. The NRTP framework reflects a different problem from the ordinary domestic threshold. The concern is not simply whether a foreign supplier has achieved a particular level of turnover. The concern is that a person without an established business presence in India may nevertheless make taxable supplies in India. A special registration mechanism provides a way to bring that supplier into the GST system for the relevant activity. The Rules require an NRTP to apply at least five days before commencement of business and to provide the prescribed documentation. The procedure also involves an advance deposit based on the estimated tax liability for the period for which registration is sought. The application is signed by an authorised signatory who is resident in India and has a valid PAN, as required by the Rules. 11. CTP and NRTP: Similar Purpose, Different Context Point Casual Taxable Person Non-Resident Taxable Person Core situation Occasional taxable business in a State/UT where the person has no fixed place of business. Occasional taxable supplies in India by a person with no fixed place of business or residence in India. Typical example Domestic business participating in a temporary exhibition in another State. Foreign supplier making taxable supplies in India without a fixed Indian business establishment. Application timing At least five days before commencement of business. At least five days before commencement of business. Tax deposit Advance deposit based on estimated liability under the special framework. Advance deposit based on estimated liability under the special framework. Nature of compliance Temporary/specific registration linked to the activity. Temporary/specific registration linked to the Indian taxable activity. Main practical risk Wrongly treating a temporary activity as irrelevant because turnover is low. Starting Indian taxable activity before completing the special registration procedure. 12. Inter-State Supplies: The Rule Is More Nuanced Than It Looks A common statement found in early GST explanations is that every inter-State supplier must register regardless of turnover. That statement is too broad as a description of the current legal position. The statutory framework must be read with exemptions and notifications. For example, Notification No. 10/2017-Integrated Tax dated 13 October 2017 provides an exemption from registration in specified circumstances for persons making inter-State supplies of taxable services, subject to the conditions in the notification. This illustrates why GST research cannot stop at Section 24. A section may establish a general rule while a notification provides an important exception. For a taxpayer, the practical checklist is therefore: identify whether the supply is goods or services; determine the place of supply; identify whether it is an inter-State supply; check the applicable registration section; and finally verify whether an exemption notification applies. 13. Reverse Charge: Registration Is Not Automatically the Same as Tax Liability Reverse charge changes the direction in which tax is discharged. Instead of the supplier collecting and paying the tax in the usual manner, the recipient may become liable under the specified provisions. Section 24 includes persons required to pay tax under reverse charge. But a careful analysis must also consider Section 23 and the notifications that exempt specified persons from compulsory registration in particular reverse-charge situations. This is a good example of why a lawyer or tax adviser should avoid giving an answer by quoting one section in isolation. In practice, a taxpayer should first identify the exact reverse-charge entry, then determine who is legally liable, and finally examine whether the person is exempt from registration despite the reverse-charge obligation. The tax liability and the registration liability are related questions, but they are not always identical questions. 14. Section 9(5): The E-Commerce Operator May Become the Taxpayer Section 9(5) is another example of GST moving away from a simple supplier-centred model. For specified notified services supplied through an electronic commerce operator, the operator may be made liable to pay tax. This should not be confused with the tax collection at source mechanism under Section 52. Section 9(5) concerns who pays the tax for the notified supply, whereas Section 52 concerns collection of tax at source by an electronic commerce operator on specified supplies. The two provisions can involve the same digital platform but perform different legal functions. 15. TDS Deductors: Registration Based on Role GST registration can also be connected with the role a person performs rather than the turnover earned from ordinary outward supplies. Persons required to deduct tax under Section 51 fall within the compulsory-registration architecture. This is particularly relevant for government departments, specified public bodies and other notified deductors. The reason for registration is not that the department has suddenly become a conventional taxable seller. Registration enables the GST system to identify the person responsible for deduction and reporting. 16. Agents and Persons Supplying on Behalf of Others Agency arrangements create another difficult area. A person may sell goods that belong to someone else, receive orders on behalf of a principal, issue invoices, or perform several functions under a commercial agreement. Section 24 specifically addresses persons making taxable supplies on behalf of other taxable persons as agents or otherwise. The real issue is therefore not the label written on a contract. The facts must be examined. Who owns the goods? Who bears commercial risk? Who issues the invoice? Who receives consideration? Is the person authorised to transfer title? What does the agreement actually require? For this reason, agency-related registration questions are particularly suitable for legal analysis. A small change in the contractual structure can change the GST treatment, and the compliance team must understand the commercial transaction rather than simply search for a section number. 17. Input Service Distributor: Credit Distribution as a Registration Function An Input Service Distributor is another category in which registration is connected with a specialised GST function. The ISD mechanism is designed to distribute eligible input-service credit among relevant registrations of the same organisation in the manner prescribed by law. The ISD framework has undergone important changes, including changes applicable from 1 April 2025. Businesses having multiple GST registrations should therefore review their internal credit-distribution structure instead of relying on older pre-2025 explanations. The larger lesson is that GST registration is not limited to persons who sell goods or services directly to customers. The Act can require registration because a person performs a particular function inside the GST credit or collection architecture. 18. E-Commerce: Do Not Treat the Platform and Seller as the Same Person E-commerce has made GST registration more fact-sensitive. A digital platform may be an electronic commerce operator, while the actual seller remains a separate taxable person. The platform may also have obligations relating to tax collection at source, while certain notified supplies may attract special tax-liability rules. Recent notifications have also created specified exemptions and procedures for certain small suppliers using electronic commerce operators, subject to conditions. Therefore, the statement “selling online means GST registration is always mandatory” is too simplistic as a current legal proposition. A better approach is to ask: what is being sold, who is selling it, who operates the platform, whether the operator is liable under Section 52 or Section 9(5), whether the supplier is covered by a notified exemption, and whether the supplier meets the conditions of the relevant special procedure. 19. Cross-Border Digital Services: OIDAR and Online Money Gaming The digital economy has also pushed GST registration beyond traditional physical business models. A supplier can be located outside India and still make taxable digital supplies to Indian recipients. The legal framework for online information and database access or retrieval services supplied from outside India to non-taxable online recipients operates through the IGST Act and the corresponding CGST Rules. The historical structure of Section 24 has also changed, so older articles that mechanically list OIDAR as a current Section 24 category should be treated carefully. Online money gaming presents another specialised cross-border model. Legislative and Council developments created a specific framework for suppliers of online money gaming from outside the taxable territory, including a simplified registration mechanism under the IGST framework. These developments show how GST law is responding to business models in which there may be no shop, warehouse or traditional office in India. The tax law therefore increasingly relies on digital registration, platform information and specialised compliance procedures. PART III – CRITICAL DISCUSSION 20. The Real Difficulty: Classification Before Calculation In ordinary tax discussions, calculation often comes first: What is the turnover? What is the tax rate? What is the tax amount? In registration matters, classification often comes before calculation. A taxpayer can calculate turnover perfectly and still reach the wrong conclusion if the taxpayer has first classified the business incorrectly. For example, a temporary event seller may think only about annual sales, while the real issue is whether the activity creates a CTP situation. A foreign supplier may compare Indian turnover with the threshold even though the special NRTP framework is the more immediate issue. An organisation may ask whether it has taxable outward turnover when the relevant question is whether it is performing a TDS or ISD function. This is why GST registration is a good example of applied taxation law. The lawyer or tax professional has to combine statutory interpretation, factual analysis, commercial understanding and procedural compliance. 21. Pragati Engineers: Why Facts and Location Matter The Delhi High Court’s decision in M/s Pragati Engineers v. Union of India & Ors. illustrates the importance of examining the factual setting of a business activity when considering the concept of a Casual Taxable Person. The case involved a taxpayer registered in Delhi and work/business activity connected with Hyderabad. The Court considered the statutory definition of CTP and the compulsory-registration framework. The significance of the case for students is not that every inter-State project automatically makes a person a CTP. The more useful lesson is methodological: registration questions depend on the statutory definition and the factual relationship between the taxpayer and the place where the taxable activity occurs. A good legal analysis therefore asks: What is the person’s normal place of business? What activity is being performed in the other State? Is there a fixed place of business? Is the activity occasional? What supplies are actually being made? What does the statutory definition require? 22. The Compliance Cost Problem Mandatory registration has a clear administrative purpose, but it also creates compliance costs. For a large company, the cost of registration may be marginal compared with the overall scale of the business. For a small enterprise attending one event, however, registration may involve professional fees, advance tax funding, invoicing arrangements, return filing and record keeping for an activity lasting only a few days. This raises a policy question: how can GST protect revenue and create traceability without discouraging legitimate small-scale or temporary commerce? The special CTP and NRTP provisions partly address this by creating a registration mechanism specifically suited to temporary activity. But the effectiveness of such a mechanism depends on whether taxpayers can understand and use it easily. 23. Advance Tax Deposit: Security for Revenue, Burden for Business The advance deposit requirement for CTPs and NRTPs serves an understandable revenue-protection purpose. A person with no permanent business presence in the relevant jurisdiction may leave before the administration can pursue an unpaid liability. Requiring an estimated tax deposit provides a form of security. From the taxpayer’s perspective, however, the deposit creates a cash-flow cost. The estimate may also be difficult when sales at an exhibition or short-term project are uncertain. The better policy balance is therefore not necessarily to remove the deposit requirement altogether, but to make the estimation and adjustment process transparent, predictable and digitally manageable. A taxpayer should be able to understand how the estimate is calculated and how the final liability is reconciled. 24. A Human Problem: Businesses Often Discover the Rule Too Late One of the most practical problems in GST compliance is timing. A business may sign an exhibition agreement, send goods to another State, begin sales and only then ask an accountant whether GST registration was required. At that stage, the legal question has become a compliance problem. This is why registration advice should ideally be part of business planning. Before a temporary event, cross-border sale or new digital channel begins, the business should run a short GST classification check. Where is the supplier located? Where will the actual taxable activity take place? Is there a fixed place of business in that State/UT? Is the activity occasional or part of a regular business presence? Is the supply goods, services or a digital service? Who is liable to pay tax: supplier, recipient or e-commerce operator? Does the person fall within a special registration category? Does any exemption notification or special procedure apply? What is the application deadline and what documents are required? 25. Technology and the New GST Registration Environment GST administration is increasingly becoming technology-driven. Registration is no longer simply a paper exercise in which a taxpayer submits a form and waits for manual processing. The Common Portal verifies identity and information, and the Rules have increasingly incorporated electronic and risk-based mechanisms. The 2025 changes are particularly significant. GST Council materials report the introduction of Rule 9A, under which registration can be granted electronically within three working days based on data analysis and risk parameters for specified applicants. The same set of reforms introduced Rule 14A, providing a simplified registration option for eligible small taxpayers subject to prescribed conditions, including Aadhaar authentication and a specified output-tax-liability condition. These reforms demonstrate an important change in tax administration philosophy. The objective is not simply “more registration”. It is increasingly about identifying genuine taxpayers quickly, using data to distinguish lower-risk and higher-risk applications, and reducing avoidable friction for compliant businesses. 26. Is Faster Registration Always Better? Speed is valuable, but speed cannot replace accuracy. A registration system that grants GSTINs quickly but creates errors in place of business, promoter information, bank details or tax classification can create later disputes. The ideal system therefore combines three elements: fast processing for low-risk cases, meaningful scrutiny where risk indicators exist, and an accessible correction or review mechanism when the taxpayer’s genuine information is misunderstood. This is particularly important for small businesses. A large enterprise may have internal tax teams to respond to notices and correct portal issues. A small trader may not. 27. Constitutional and Federal Dimension GST is a federal tax structure involving the Union and the States. Registration therefore has an institutional dimension as well as an individual taxpayer dimension. The question of which jurisdiction can tax, where registration is required and how information is shared is connected with the constitutional design of GST. The Supreme Court’s decision in Union of India v. Mohit Minerals Pvt. Ltd. is relevant to understanding the constitutional position of the GST Council and the nature of its recommendations. Although the case is not a direct CTP/NRTP registration case, it provides useful background for students studying how GST legislation, executive action and Council recommendations interact. For a Principles of Taxation course, this is important because taxation law is not only about collection. It is also about legislative competence, institutional design, administrative fairness and the relationship between different levels of government. 28. Common Misconceptions – Corrected Misconception More accurate approach “Below the turnover threshold means no GST registration in every case.” First check Sections 23 and 24 and the specific nature of the taxpayer’s activity. “Every inter-State supply automatically requires registration.” Check the nature of supply and applicable exemptions/notifications, including specified service exemptions. “CTP means anyone who sells once outside their State.” Apply the statutory definition, including the absence of a fixed place of business and the occasional nature of the activity. “NRTP is just an Indian taxpayer with a low turnover.” NRTP is a special category concerning persons with no fixed place of business or residence in India. “Reverse charge and registration are exactly the same question.” Determine tax liability first, then examine the registration consequences and exemptions. “Section 9(5) and TCS under Section 52 are the same.” Section 9(5) can shift tax liability for specified services; Section 52 concerns tax collection at source. “Selling online always means compulsory registration.” E-commerce rules contain specific exemptions and procedures; the facts and applicable notification matter. “Old GST articles are automatically reliable.” GST provisions and procedures have changed; current notifications, rules and official material must be checked. 29. A Practical Decision Tree for Taxpayers A taxpayer can use the following sequence before concluding that registration is or is not required: Step 1 – Identify the person: individual, company, partnership, foreign supplier, government body, platform, agent or specialised GST functionary. Step 2 – Identify the supply: goods, services, exempt supply, taxable supply, digital service or a notified category. Step 3 – Identify location: State/UT of the supplier, place of business, place of supply and whether the activity is inter-State. Step 4 – Apply Section 22: determine the ordinary threshold-based position. Step 5 – Apply Section 23: check whether the person is excluded or exempt from registration. Step 6 – Apply Section 24: check whether a compulsory-registration category applies. Step 7 – Check notifications: especially exemptions and special procedures that modify the general position. Step 8 – Check timing: ordinary registration timelines differ from special CTP/NRTP requirements. Step 9 – Check cash flow: where advance deposit is required, estimate tax realistically and plan funds. Step 10 – Document the conclusion: keep the factual and legal basis for the registration decision on record. 30. Illustrations Illustration A – Temporary Exhibition A Punjab-based handicraft business has no fixed place of business in another State. It takes a temporary stall at a four-day trade fair and sells taxable products. The business should not simply conclude that its annual turnover is below the ordinary threshold. It should examine the CTP provisions and the special registration procedure before commencing the activity. Illustration B – Foreign Supplier A foreign company has no fixed place of business or residence in India but plans to make occasional taxable supplies in India. The company should examine whether it falls within the NRTP framework and should plan the application and advance deposit before beginning the taxable activity. Illustration C – Reverse Charge A person receives a supply that is specifically notified for reverse charge. The recipient should identify the exact reverse-charge provision and then examine whether registration is required or whether an exemption applies. The existence of reverse charge alone should not end the legal analysis. Illustration D – E-Commerce A small supplier begins selling goods through an electronic commerce operator. The supplier and the operator have different legal roles. The supplier must examine the current exemption and special-procedure notifications, while the operator must separately examine its TCS and other statutory obligations. Illustration E – Digital Supplier Outside India A foreign digital business supplies online services to Indian consumers. Physical presence is not the only relevant concept. The business should examine the special cross-border digital-supply provisions, the nature of the recipient and the prescribed registration mechanism. PART IV – CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS 31. Conclusion: Turnover Is the Beginning, Not the Whole Story GST registration is often presented as a mathematical exercise. Calculate aggregate turnover, compare it with the threshold and decide whether registration is required. That approach is useful for a straightforward business, but the wider GST law tells a more complicated story. Sections 22, 23 and 24 together show that registration can depend on much more than turnover. A person may have a temporary business presence, may be non-resident, may be responsible for reverse-charge tax, may deduct tax at source, may act as an agent, may distribute input-service credit or may participate in an electronic-commerce or cross-border digital model. The CTP and NRTP provisions are especially important because they recognise a basic reality of modern commerce: business is not always permanent, local or physically established. A trader may move from one exhibition to another, a foreign supplier may enter a market for a limited period, and digital suppliers may serve customers without maintaining a conventional office in the country. At the same time, the law has to balance revenue protection with ease of compliance. Advance tax deposits, temporary registration, documentation and return obligations protect the tax system, but they also create costs for small and temporary businesses. Technology-based reforms such as risk-based electronic registration and simplified registration for eligible small taxpayers show an attempt to address that tension. The most useful principle for a student of taxation law is therefore this: do not begin and end the registration analysis with turnover. Begin with the facts, identify the legal category, read the relevant sections together, check notifications and rules, and then decide the compliance path. 32. Recommendations Taxpayers should conduct a registration review before entering a new State, beginning an exhibition, launching a digital channel or accepting a cross-border order. Businesses should maintain a short written record explaining why they considered registration necessary or unnecessary, especially where Sections 23 and 24 interact. Professionals should verify current notifications and rules rather than relying on older GST articles, because the registration framework has changed since GST was introduced. For CTPs and NRTPs, advance tax and procedural requirements should be built into commercial planning rather than treated as an afterthought. E-commerce businesses should separately map the legal responsibilities of the platform and the underlying supplier. Multi-State businesses should periodically review whether their ISD structure reflects the rules applicable from 1 April 2025. The GST portal should continue to improve plain-language guidance for small taxpayers, especially for temporary and cross-border registration. Technology-led risk assessment should be accompanied by accessible human review so that genuine applicants can correct factual or technical errors without disproportionate compliance costs. 33. Final Practical Checklist Question Yes/No Action if Yes Has the applicable turnover threshold been crossed? ___ Examine Section 22 and apply for registration where liable. Is the person exclusively making exempt/non-taxable supplies? ___ Examine Section 23 and relevant notifications. Is there occasional business in a State without a fixed place there? ___ Examine CTP provisions before starting activity. Is the supplier non-resident with no fixed place/residence in India? ___ Examine NRTP provisions and special application procedure. Is the person liable under a reverse-charge provision? ___ Identify exact entry and check registration/exemption rules. Is the person responsible for TDS under Section 51? ___ Examine compulsory registration as deductor. Is the person an agent or supplying on behalf of another taxable person? ___ Review contractual and factual arrangement. Is the person an ISD? ___ Review the current ISD registration and distribution framework. Is an electronic commerce operator involved? ___ Separate supplier obligations from operator obligations. Is the supply cross-border and digital? ___ Check IGST/CGST special digital-supply provisions. Does a notification provide an exemption or special procedure? ___ Verify conditions before relying on it. References and Research Sources The following sources should be treated as the primary verification material for the legal propositions discussed in this blog. Because GST provisions and procedures are amended periodically, the latest version of the legislation, rules and notifications should be checked before the blog is used for professional advice. Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, especially Sections 22, 23, 24, 25, 27 and related provisions. Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, including registration procedures and the rules applicable to CTPs, NRTPs and specialised registration categories. CBIC, GST Registration Rules and registration guidance available on the official GST/CBIC portal. CBIC, Notification No. 10/2017-Integrated Tax dated 13 October 2017, concerning specified inter-State suppliers of taxable services. CBIC, Sectoral/General GST FAQs and registration guidance. GST Council materials concerning amendments and administrative developments in GST registration. GST Council Newsletter, 2025 materials concerning Rule 9A and Rule 14A registration reforms. GST Council materials concerning online money gaming and cross-border digital supplies. M/s Pragati Engineers v. Union of India & Ors., W.P.(C) 3841/2021, Delhi High Court, order dated 15 November 2021. Union of India v. Mohit Minerals Pvt. Ltd., Supreme Court of India, for constitutional background concerning the GST Council and GST federal structure. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSTGST Registration Author Info Name: Dipender Singh Brar Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Location: Sri Ganganagar, Rajasthan Articles Published: 1 View full profile → Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Recorded Cash Sales Cannot Be Taxed Again Under Section 69A: ITAT Amritsar September 23, 2026 BookMyShow Convenience Fee Not Subject to Section 194H TDS: ITAT Bangalore September 23, 2026 No Section 194H TDS Where Collection Centres Retain Margin: Bombay HC September 23, 2026 Section 115JB MAT Not Applicable to Kerala Electricity Board: Kerala HC September 23, 2026 Section 54EC Deduction Allowed for Investments Across Two Financial Years: ITAT Bangalore September 23, 2026 Section 271(1)(c) Penalty on Withdrawn Section 35 Donation Deduction Deleted: ITAT Ahmedabad September 23, 2026