Summary: An Indian resident’s transfer of money from an Indian bank account to an overseas bank account does not by itself make the amount undisclosed foreign income. Under FADS 2026, the source of each deposit, the value of the foreign account under Rule 3 and the nature of the omission from the Indian income-tax return must be examined separately. Where a foreign asset was acquired from income already offered to tax but omitted from the relevant return schedule, the statutory treatment can differ materially from a case involving undisclosed foreign income. For a foreign bank account, Rule 3 valuation may depend on qualifying deposits from the date of opening up to 31 March 2026 rather than merely the closing or peak balance, with adjustments for specified redeposits and transfers into other foreign assets. Taxpayers should therefore maintain a complete source-of-funds trail linking Indian bank debits with foreign credits, tax returns and supporting remittance records. Any interest or other income subsequently earned abroad must be analysed separately for Indian taxability and reporting. A proper FADS analysis consequently requires reconciliation of the account, residential-status review, Schedule FA/FSI examination and documentary evidence supporting both the source and previous tax treatment of the funds. Table of Contents▸ Introduction 1. Funds Transferred from India Are Not Automatically Foreign Income 2. Reporting Value Is Not the Same as Taxable Income Reporting Value Taxable Income Penalty or Scheme Exposure 3. What Does “Total Deposits” Mean for a Foreign Bank Account? 4. How Rule 3 Applies When Money Moves Between Foreign Assets 5. How Previously Taxed Indian Funds Should Be Documented 6. Foreign Income Earned After the Remittance Requires Separate Examination 7. Anonymous Example 8. Records That Should Be Retained 9. When Professional Advice Should Be Obtained Conclusion Show all 14 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction An Indian resident may transfer money from an Indian bank account to an overseas account for investment, education, family support or other permitted purposes. If that foreign bank account was not disclosed in the relevant Indian income-tax return, an important question arises: Does the omission involve undisclosed foreign income—or only a failure to report a foreign asset acquired from legitimate Indian funds? The answer cannot be determined merely from the foreign account balance. Three separate matters must be examined: Question What it determines What was the source of each deposit? Whether the money was already taxed, non-taxable capital or undisclosed income What is the account’s value under Rule 3? Whether the applicable FADS monetary threshold is satisfied What was omitted from the Indian return? Whether the case concerns taxable income, asset reporting, or both These three figures can be different. 1. Funds Transferred from India Are Not Automatically Foreign Income A remittance from an Indian bank account to a foreign bank account does not, by itself, become foreign income. For example, the remittance may represent: Salary or professional income already offered to tax in India Accumulated savings from earlier years Sale proceeds of an Indian asset Maturity proceeds from a disclosed investment A properly documented gift or loan Capital transferred under the Liberalised Remittance Scheme Income that was otherwise exempt or not chargeable to tax The relevant question is not simply where the money was deposited. The taxpayer must establish how the money was originally earned or received and how it was treated for Indian tax purposes. Under section 133 of the Finance Act, 2026, a foreign asset acquired from income already offered to tax may fall within the reporting-omission category, subject to the scheme’s conditions. That category carries a ₹1 lakh fee where the aggregate qualifying asset value does not exceed ₹5 crore. In contrast, an undisclosed foreign asset or foreign income not offered to tax falls under the separate 30% tax plus an equal additional amount route, subject to the ₹1 crore limit. Therefore, a transfer from India should not automatically be treated as undisclosed foreign income—but its source must be proved. 2. Reporting Value Is Not the Same as Taxable Income A useful way to analyse the case is to keep three concepts separate. Reporting Value This is the value assigned to the foreign bank account under the valuation provisions of FADS 2026. It is used to test the applicable scheme threshold and calculate the amount payable where relevant. Taxable Income This is income chargeable to tax in India but not previously offered to tax. It may include, depending on the taxpayer’s residential status and facts, foreign interest, investment income or another foreign receipt. The original principal remitted from already-taxed Indian funds is not automatically taxable again merely because it was transferred abroad. Penalty or Scheme Exposure The financial consequence depends on whether the case is: An undisclosed foreign asset or undisclosed foreign income; A foreign asset acquired from income already offered to tax but omitted from the relevant return schedule; or A mixed case involving both an asset-reporting omission and unreported foreign income. A valid FADS declaration and payment can provide the statutory protection available for the specific income or asset declared. It should not be assumed that the declaration regularises unrelated assets, income or omissions. 3. What Does “Total Deposits” Mean for a Foreign Bank Account? For FADS valuation, Rule 3 does not generally use only the account’s closing balance or its highest balance during the year. The prescribed value of a foreign bank account is ordinarily the sum of deposits made from the date the account was opened up to 31 March 2026. However, a deposit made from the proceeds of a withdrawal from the same account is excluded. This prevents the same money from being counted again merely because it was withdrawn and later redeposited. Accordingly: Value under Rule 3 = qualifying deposits since opening − identifiable redeposits from withdrawals from the same account This may produce a value substantially higher than the account balance on 31 March 2026. For example, an account may contain only ₹8 lakh on the valuation date but may have received total qualifying deposits of ₹40 lakh over several years. Subject to the prescribed exclusions and adjustments, the relevant FADS value may be closer to ₹40 lakh—not ₹8 lakh. The expression “total deposits” for FADS valuation should not be confused with the balance and income fields required in the ordinary Schedule FA of an income-tax return. 4. How Rule 3 Applies When Money Moves Between Foreign Assets Further adjustment may be necessary where money withdrawn from the foreign bank account was used to acquire another foreign asset. Rule 3 provides a mechanism intended to prevent the same value from being counted once in the bank account and again in the new asset. The bank-account value may be reduced by the amount invested in the new asset, while the new asset is valued separately under the rule applicable to it. This adjustment requires a clear transaction trail. A general statement that money was “used for investment” will normally be insufficient without corresponding bank, broker or purchase records. 5. How Previously Taxed Indian Funds Should Be Documented Where the taxpayer wishes to establish that the foreign account was funded from income already offered to tax, the evidence should connect the source in India to the deposit abroad. The file should ordinarily include: Indian bank statements showing the debit Foreign bank statements showing the corresponding credit Remittance application, SWIFT advice or bank transfer confirmation Liberalised Remittance Scheme documents, where applicable Relevant income-tax returns and computation statements Form 16, business accounts or other evidence of the original income Sale agreements and capital-gains workings where the source was an asset sale Gift deed, donor evidence or loan documentation where applicable Exchange-rate and date-wise reconciliation A year-wise note explaining each material deposit The existence of an Indian-bank debit establishes movement of money, but it does not by itself prove that the original source was already taxed. The evidence should demonstrate both the source and its earlier tax treatment. 6. Foreign Income Earned After the Remittance Requires Separate Examination Even where the original money came from fully disclosed Indian income, the foreign account may subsequently earn interest or other income. That later income must be examined separately by considering: The taxpayer’s residential status for the relevant year Whether the foreign income was chargeable to tax in India Whether it was included in the Indian return Whether foreign tax was deducted Whether foreign-tax credit was claimed correctly Whether Form 67 or another supporting statement was required Thus, one account can potentially contain: Principal transferred from previously taxed Indian funds; Interest already reported in India; Interest not previously reported; and Transfers or redeposits that require reconciliation. A mixed account should not be placed entirely into one category without tracing these components. 7. Anonymous Example Assume an Indian resident opened an overseas bank account and remitted ₹25 lakh from an Indian bank account. The amount came from salary and accumulated savings that had already been reflected in Indian returns. The foreign account later earned interest. The account itself was omitted from the applicable foreign-assets schedule, and part of the interest was also omitted from the Indian return. The analysis should be separated as follows: Component Possible treatment ₹25 lakh remitted from documented, taxed Indian funds Potential reporting-only asset component, subject to eligibility and evidence Foreign interest already reported in India Generally not undisclosed income merely because it remained overseas Foreign interest not reported but chargeable in India Potential undisclosed foreign-income component Account value under Rule 3 Calculated from qualifying deposits—not merely the closing balance Consequence under FADS Requires separate testing of each component, applicable thresholds and scheme conditions The example does not establish automatically that the taxpayer qualifies for a particular FADS route. Residential status, return history, source evidence, account valuation and any existing proceedings must first be examined. 8. Records That Should Be Retained A complete working file should include: Foreign bank statements from the account’s opening date Deposit-and-withdrawal reconciliation Indian remittance records Source-of-funds evidence Year-wise residential-status analysis Indian income-tax returns and computations Schedule FA and Schedule FSI disclosures, where applicable Foreign interest and tax certificates Foreign-tax-credit workings and Form 67 records Documents for investments acquired from account withdrawals Rule 3 valuation and currency-conversion workings Copies of notices, proceedings or earlier declarations, if any The official FADS guidance requires documentary evidence concerning acquisition of the asset or earning of the income and applicable valuation material to accompany Form 1. 9. When Professional Advice Should Be Obtained Professional review is particularly important where: The account contains both taxed and untaxed amounts Statements from the account’s opening date are unavailable Money was withdrawn and later redeposited Funds moved between a bank account, securities and property The account was jointly held or funded through gifts or loans Residential status changed between resident, RNOR and non-resident Foreign interest or investment income was omitted More than one foreign asset is involved The ₹1 crore or ₹5 crore threshold may be approached A notice, assessment or Black Money Act proceeding already exists The remittance also raises FEMA or Liberalised Remittance Scheme questions The decision should be made only after preparing a source-of-funds trail, residential-status timeline, return-disclosure review and Rule 3 valuation. Conclusion A foreign bank account funded from India should not automatically be classified as containing undisclosed foreign income. At the same time, proof that the money was remitted through an Indian bank does not by itself resolve the reporting omission. The correct approach is to separate: The account’s reporting value under Rule 3 Any income that was taxable but not offered to tax The consequence of the foreign-asset reporting omission That separation determines whether FADS 2026 is applicable, which statutory category may apply and what evidence should accompany the declaration. For the wider eligibility rules, thresholds, valuation provisions and filing process, read the complete FADS 2026 guide. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Foreign Income and Asset Disclosure Author Info Name: CA. JIGAR SHAH Qualification: CA in Practice Company: JRSM & Associates Location: Vadodara, Gujarat Articles Published: 4 View full profile → More from CA. JIGAR SHAH FADS 2026: A Practical Guide to Disclosing Unreported Foreign Assets and Income September 5, 2026 GST On Hotels And Restaurants In 2026 One Property, Multiple GST Rates August 3, 2026 New Form ITR-BN for Block Assessments: Filing Requirements, Issues & Challenges July 28, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax Income Tax Refund Cannot Be Adjusted Against Pre-CIRP Tax Dues During IBC Moratorium: NCLT Ahmedabad October 7, 2026 Income Tax Tax Refund Cannot Be Set Off Against Pre-CIRP Dues During Moratorium: NCLT Indore October 7, 2026 Income Tax Claims Not Admitted in IBC Proceedings Cannot Survive: ITAT Delhi October 7, 2026 Form 10-IEA Prevails Over Contrary ITR Tax-Regime Selection: ITAT Mumbai October 7, 2026 Section 271D Penalty by Assessment Unit Without Jurisdiction Quashed: ITAT Delhi October 7, 2026 SC Refuses Writ Interference Where Income Tax Appeal Remedy Was Available October 7, 2026