Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 12751 Case Name JCIT (OSD) Vs DLF Homes Panchkula Pvt. Ltd. (Supreme Court of India) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts Supreme Court of India Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); JCIT (OSD) Vs DLF Homes Panchkula Pvt. Ltd. (Supreme Court of India) Summary: The Supreme Court dismissed the Revenue’s petitions concerning External Development Charges (EDC) paid by real-estate developers to the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA), now Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). The Supreme Court condoned the delay and, following its earlier orders in Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central III) and Anr. v. BPTP Limited, dated 16.12.2020, and Joint Commissioner of Income Tax v. M/s Experion Developers Pvt. Ltd., dated 12.02.2024, dismissed the petitions. Read Delhi HC Judgment in this case: Delhi HC Sets Aside TDS Demands on External Development Charges Paid to HUDA The underlying Delhi High Court judgment had held that EDC could not be characterised as “rent” for the purposes of Section 194-I of the Income-tax Act, 1961. The Court rejected the Revenue’s attempt to sustain the TDS demand by contending that the Assessing Officer had merely referred to an incorrect statutory provision. Facts of the Case The petitioners were engaged in the business of real-estate development. They had entered into agreements with the State Government of Haryana, acting through the Director General, Town & Country Planning, for developing an IT Park and a Group Housing Colony. Under the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 and the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Rules, 1976, the petitioners were required to pay proportionate development charges as determined by the Director General, Town & Country Planning. The petitioners accordingly paid EDC to HUDA. The Assessing Officer issued proceedings under Section 201(1)/201(1A), taking the view that the petitioners were liable to deduct TDS on the EDC payments. Although the petitioners had specifically disputed the applicability of Sections 194C and 194J, the Assessing Officer ultimately proceeded on the basis that EDC was in the nature of rent and that TDS was deductible under Section 194-I at the rate of 10%. In the lead matter, the demand was quantified at ₹12,27,91,027, comprising ₹6,46,78,089 under Section 201(1) and ₹5,81,12,938 under Section 201(1A). Revenue’s Contention Before the Delhi High Court, the Revenue conceded that Section 194-I was not applicable and that EDC could not be regarded as rent. However, the Revenue argued that the Assessing Officer possessed jurisdiction to determine whether TDS was deductible and that the reference to Section 194-I was merely an incorrect reference to the applicable provision. According to the Revenue, EDC was in substance a payment to a contractor for carrying out external development works and could therefore attract Section 194C. The Revenue consequently sought remand of the matter to the Assessing Officer for consideration under the appropriate TDS provision. Whether EDC Could Be Treated as Rent under Section 194-I? The Delhi High Court rejected the Revenue’s contention. The Court noted that the Assessing Officer had not merely mentioned Section 194-I by mistake. The entire reasoning of the impugned order proceeded on the basis that EDC was rent. The Assessing Officer had analysed the nature of the payment and concluded that it represented payment for the use of developed land and infrastructure. On that basis, the Assessing Officer applied Section 194-I and the 10% rate applicable to payments relating to the use of land or building. The High Court held that the Revenue could not subsequently abandon this reasoning and contend that the same payment was actually made to a contractor under Section 194C. Nature of EDC Was Material to the TDS Liability The Court emphasised that determination of the nature of EDC was fundamental to deciding whether the petitioner had any obligation to deduct TDS. The Court observed that the Revenue appeared to be proceeding in reverse: it had first concluded that TDS was payable on EDC and was thereafter attempting to identify a provision under which the liability could be sustained. The Court rejected this approach. The Assessing Officer had specifically determined that EDC was rent and had accordingly invoked Section 194-I. Since the Revenue itself conceded that EDC was not rent, the fundamental basis of the impugned order failed. Reliance on BPTP Ltd. The High Court also relied upon its earlier decision in BPTP Ltd. v. Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central)-4. In BPTP, the Revenue had sought to justify reassessment proceedings on the premise that TDS was required to be deducted from EDC payments. The Assessing Officer in that case had referred to Section 194, which concerns TDS on dividends. The Revenue subsequently attempted to contend that EDC was in the nature of rent and therefore covered by Section 194-I. The Delhi High Court rejected that contention and held that EDC, being in the nature of statutory fees, could not be subjected to withholding tax merely by introducing a different legal explanation during the proceedings. The Court also considered the Supreme Court’s decision in New Okhla Industrial Development Authority, relied upon by the Revenue in relation to the broad definition of “rent” under Section 194-I. However, the High Court distinguished that decision because it concerned annual rent payable under a lease arrangement. In the case before it, EDC did not arise from such a lease or arrangement for the use of land. The Court further relied upon the principle stated by the Supreme Court in Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner that a statutory order must be judged on the reasons stated in the order and cannot subsequently be supplemented by fresh reasons through an affidavit or otherwise. High Court’s Decision The Delhi High Court held that the Revenue could not sustain the impugned orders by simply substituting Section 194C for Section 194-I. The Assessing Officer had expressly held that EDC was rent and had applied Section 194-I at the rate of 10%. Since the Revenue conceded that EDC was not rent, the fundamental reasoning of the order was unsustainable. Accordingly, the Court: set aside the impugned order in W.P.(C) No.4351/2021; allowed the petition; set aside the orders raising demands under Sections 201(1) and 201(1A); and allowed the connected petitions as well, since the impugned orders in those matters were similarly founded on the finding that EDC was liable to TDS under Section 194-I. Supreme Court Decision The Revenue carried the matter to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court recorded: “Delay condoned.” It thereafter followed its earlier order in Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central III) and Anr. v. BPTP Limited, dated 16.12.2020, and Joint Commissioner of Income Tax v. M/s Experion Developers Pvt. Ltd., dated 12.02.2024. The Court held that the petitions also stood dismissed. Pending applications, if any, were disposed of. Conclusion The Delhi High Court ruling makes it clear that the Revenue cannot sustain a TDS demand by changing the statutory basis of the Assessing Officer’s order at the appellate stage. In the present case, the Assessing Officer had specifically treated EDC as rent and invoked Section 194-I. Once the Revenue conceded that EDC was not rent, the foundation of the assessment order disappeared. The Court therefore declined to permit the Revenue to replace Section 194-I with Section 194C and remand the matter for a fresh determination. The Supreme Court subsequently dismissed the Revenue’s challenge after following its earlier orders in BPTP Limited and Experion Developers Pvt. Ltd. Result: The TDS demands raised under Sections 201(1) and 201(1A) on the basis that EDC constituted rent under Section 194-I were set aside. List of Cases Discussed / Relied Upon BPTP Ltd. v. Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central)-4, 2019 SCC OnLine Del 12358. New Okhla Industrial Development Authority — Supreme Court decision concerning the scope of “rent” under Section 194-I. Mohinder Singh Gill v. Chief Election Commissioner, [1978] 1 SCC 405. Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central III) and Anr. v. BPTP Limited, Supreme Court order dated 16.12.2020. Joint Commissioner of Income Tax v. M/s Experion Developers Pvt. Ltd., Supreme Court order dated 12.02.2024. FULL TEXT OF THE SUPREME COURT JUDGMENT/ORDER Delay condoned. Following the order of this Court in “Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (Central III) and Anr. vs. BPTP Limited” dated 16.12.2020 passed in SLP(C) Dy. No.19436/2020 and in SLP(C) Dy. NO.2867/2024 “Joint Commissioner of Income Tax vs. M/s Experion Developers Pvt. Ltd.” dated 12.02.2024, these petitions also stand dismissed. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under section 194Isupreme court judgementsTDS Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 19,757 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi NCLAT Upholds NCLT Jurisdiction Over Interim Oppression Proceedings in Exclusive Capital Dispute September 9, 2026 CESTAT Dismisses Appeal, Upholds Sub-Contractor’s Independent Service Tax Liability September 9, 2026 ITAT Delhi Deletes Section 270A Penalty for Fully Disclosed Disputed Treaty Income September 9, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Income Tax ITAT Delhi Deletes Section 270A Penalty for Fully Disclosed Disputed Treaty Income September 9, 2026 Gujarat HC Quashes Section 148 Notice Issued Against Deceased Assessee September 9, 2026 Madras HC Allows Form 10B Delay Condonation for Genuine Hardship September 9, 2026 Suspicion Cannot Replace Evidence in Penny-Stock LTCG Cases: Madras HC deletes addition September 9, 2026 Gujarat HC Deletes Section 271(1)(c) Penalty on Debatable SPN Interest Disallowance September 9, 2026 Nothing to Cure When Notice Is Issued to a Dead Person September 9, 2026