Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13962 Case Name Arup Dutta Vs State of West Bengal & Ors. (Calcutta High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Calcutta High Court Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Arup Dutta Vs State of West Bengal & Ors. (Calcutta High Court) Summary: The Calcutta High Court disposed of the writ petition filed by Arup Dutta challenging the legality and validity of an adjudication order dated 09.12.2025 passed by respondent No. 3 under Section 73 of the West Bengal Goods and Services Tax Act and the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017. The petitioner submitted that a show cause notice in Form DRC 01 dated 04.06.2025 had demanded tax, interest and penalty and that the notice and adjudication order were uploaded on the GST portal under the tab “Additional Notice and Orders”. According to the petitioner, the personal hearing date in the show cause notice was fixed prior to the reply date, and despite a reply being submitted on 04.01.2025, respondent No. 3 did not provide an opportunity of personal hearing, contrary to Section 75(4) of the GST Act. The petitioner further stated that the ex-parte adjudication order was uploaded under the “Additional notices and order” tab and that he came to know about the order dated 09.12.2025 only after receiving a phone call from the GST Department on 10.07.2026. The State opposed the writ petition and submitted that ample opportunities had been granted to defend the case. Upon hearing the parties and perusing the records, the Court observed that the petitioner had made out a prima facie case and noted that the adjudication order had only been uploaded under the “Additional Notice and Orders” tab without separate intimation. The Court consequently quashed and set aside the adjudication order dated 09.12.2025 and directed respondent No. 3 to revisit the issue by considering the petitioner’s reply on merits, afford an opportunity of hearing and pass a fresh reasoned adjudication order in accordance with law within 12 weeks. The decision was directed to be communicated within a week thereafter. The Court clarified that since no affidavit in opposition had been called for, the allegations in the writ petition were deemed to have been denied and not admitted. Petitioner Was Represented By : Mr. Himangshu Kumar Ray. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF CALCUTTA HIGH COURT 1. Affidavit of service filed in Court today be kept with the record. 2. The present writ petition has been filed challenging inter alia, the legality and validity of the adjudication order dated 09.12.2025 passed by the respondent No. 3 under Section 73 of the West Bengal Goods and Services Tax Act(hereinafter referred to as the said ‘WBGST Act’) and the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017(hereinafter referred to as the said ‘CGST Act’), whereby the appeal of the petitioner has been dismissed on ground of limitation. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits as follows; i. That a show cause notice in Form DRC 01 dated 04.06.2025 has been issued to the petitioner demanding tax, interest and penalty. ii. That the notice and adjudication order have been uploaded on the GST portal under the tab ‘Additional Notice and Orders’. In the show cause notice, the date of personal hearing was fixed prior to the date of reply, which constitutes violation of principles of natural justice. iii. The petitioner submitted a reply on 04.01.2025. After reply was submitted, the respondent no. 3 did not provide an opportunity of personal hearing which runs contrary to the statutory provisions of Section 75(4) of the GST Act. iv. The ex-parte adjudication order was uploaded under the ‘Additional notices and order’ tab. v. That the petitioner came to know about the said adjudication order dated 09.12.2025 only after receiving a phone call from the GST Department on 10.07.2026. vi. That the entire proceedings and the impugned orders are contrary to law and have been passed in violation of principles of natural justice and without due compliance with the procedure prescribed under the said Act. vii. That the petitioner submits that the order of adjudication suffers from non-application of mind. In the show cause notice, the name of Safikul Islam, is mentioned as the Registered Person (RP) whereas the other person’s name is mentioned elsewhere. 4. Learned counsel appearing for the State respondents opposed the writ petition and submitted since the petitioners have been granted ample opportunities to defend his case. 5. Having heard the parties and upon perusing the records made available this Court observes as follows; i. The petitioners have been able to make out a prima facie case. ii. The fact that adjudication order has been only uploaded under the ‘tab Additional Notice and Orders’ and no separate intimation has been given. 6. In view of the above this Court directs as follows: a. The adjudication order dated 09.12.2025 is hereby quashed and set aside. b. Respondent no. 3 is directed to revisit the issue by considering the reply by the petitioner on merits. c. Respondent no. 3 shall afford an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner and pass a fresh reasoned adjudication order in accordance with law within 12 weeks from date. Such decision shall be communicated to the petitioners within a week thereafter. 7. With the above observations and directions this writ petition stands disposed of. 8. Since no affidavit in opposition has been called for, the allegations contained in the writ petition are deemed to have been denied and not admitted. 9. Urgent Photostat certified copy of this order be supplied to the parties, if applied for, as early as possible. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgmentsPrinciples of natural justice Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,441 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Section 148 Notice Issued to Deceased Assessee Is Void Ab Initio: ITAT Chennai September 26, 2026 HC Can Condon GST Appeal Delay Beyond Section 107 Limit: Rajasthan High Court September 26, 2026 Binding Madras HC Order Prevents SBI’s TDS Default on Foreign LFC: ITAT Ahmedabad September 26, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Section 16(2)(c) of CGST Act, 2017: Constitutional Battle over Input Tax Credit September 26, 2026 GST Compliance Cycle: Registration, ITC, Returns, Appeals and Key Case Law September 26, 2026 GST Input Tax Credit: Eligibility, Conditions, GSTR-2B and Compliance September 26, 2026 Forward Charge Under GST: Levy, Invoicing, ITC and Compliance September 26, 2026 HC Can Condon GST Appeal Delay Beyond Section 107 Limit: Rajasthan High Court September 26, 2026 Rajasthan HC Condoned GST Appeal Delay Citing Portal Service & Medical Circumstances September 26, 2026