1 | 2024 Inspection Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting (Headquartered in Newhall, California) June 26, 2025 THIS IS A PUBLIC VERSION OF A PCAOB INSPECTION REPORT PORTIONS OF THE COMPLETE REPORT ARE OMITTED FROM THIS DOCUMENT IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH SECTIONS 104(g)(2) AND 105(b)(5)(A) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 PCAOB RELEASE NO. 104-2025-108 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2024 Inspection ............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview of the 2024 Inspection and Historical Data by Inspection Year ................................... 3 Part I: Inspection Observations ..................................................................................................... 5 Part I.A: Audits with Unsupported Opinions ................................................................................ 6 Part I.B: Other Instances of Non-Compliance with PCAOB Standards or Rules ........................... 8 Part I.C: Independence................................................................................................................ 10 Part II: Observations Related to Quality Control ........................................................................ 11 Appendix A: Firm’s Response to the Draft Inspection Report ..................................................... A-1 Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | 2 2024 INSPECTION In the 2024 inspection of Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) assessed the firm’s compliance with laws, rules, and professional standards applicable to the audits of public companies. We selected for review two audits of issuers. For each issuer audit selected, we reviewed a portion of the audit. We also evaluated elements of the firm’s system of quality control. 2024 Inspection Approach In selecting issuer audits for review, we use a risk-based method of selection. We make selections based on (1) our internal evaluation of audits we believe have a heightened risk of material misstatement, including those with challenging audit areas, and (2) other risk-based characteristics, including issuer and firm considerations. In certain situations, we may select all of the firm’s issuer audits for review. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. Rather, we generally focus our attention on audit areas we believe to be of greater complexity, areas of greater significance or with a heightened risk of material misstatement to the issuer’s financial statements, and areas of recurring deficiencies. We may also select some audit areas for review in a manner designed to incorporate unpredictability. Our selection of audits for review does not necessarily constitute a representative sample of the firm’s total population of issuer audits. Additionally, our inspection findings are specific to the particular portions of the issuer audits reviewed. They are not an assessment of all of the firm’s audit work or of all of the audit procedures performed for the audits reviewed. View the details on thescope of our inspections and our inspections procedures. Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | 3 OVERVIEW OF THE 2024 INSPECTION AND HISTORICAL DATA BY INSPECTION YEAR The following information provides an overview of our 2024 inspection as well as data from the previous inspection. We use a risk-based method to select audits for review and to identify areas on which we focus our review. Because our inspection process evolves over time, it can, and often does, focus on a different mix of audits and audit areas from inspection to inspection and firm to firm. Further, a firm’s business, the applicable auditing standards, or other factors can change from the time of one inspection to the next. As a result of these variations, we caution that our inspection results are not necessarily comparable over time or among firms. Firm Data and Audits Selected for Review 20242022 Firm data Total issuer audit clients in which the firm was the principal auditor 4 3 Total engagement partners on issuer audit work 1 1 1 Audits reviewed Total audits reviewed2 3 Audits in which the firm was the principal auditor 2 3 Integrated audits of financial statements and internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) 0 0 Audits with Part I.A deficiencies2 3 Percentage of audits with Part I.A deficiencies 100% 100% If we include a deficiency in Part I.A of our report, it does not necessarily mean that the firm has not addressed the deficiency. In many cases, the firm has performed remedial actions after the deficiency was identified. Depending on the circumstances, remedial actions may include performing additional audit procedures, informing management of the issuer of the need for changes to the financial statements or reporting on ICFR or taking steps to prevent reliance on prior audit reports. 1 The number of engagement partners on issuer audit work represents the total number of firm personnel (not necessarily limited to personnel with an ownership interest) who had primary responsibility for an issuer audit (as defined in AS 1201, Supervision of the Audit Engagement) during the twelve-month period preceding the outset of the inspection. Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | 4 Our inspection may include a review, on a sample basis, of the adequacy of a firm’s remedial actions, either with respect to previously identified deficiencies or deficiencies identified during the current inspection.If a firm does not take appropriate actions to address deficiencies, we may criticize its system of quality control or pursue a disciplinary action. If we include a deficiency in our report — other than those deficiencies for audits with incorrect opinions on the financial statements and/or ICFR — it does not necessarily mean that the issuer’s financial statements are materially misstated or that undisclosed material weaknesses in ICFR exist. It is often not possible for us to reach a conclusion on those points based on our inspection procedures and related findings because, for example, we have only the information that the auditor retained and the issuer’s public disclosures. We do not have direct access to the issuer’s management, underlying books and records, and other information. Audit Areas Most Frequently Reviewed This table reflects the audit areas we have selected most frequently for review in the 2024 inspection and the previous inspection. For the issuer audits selected for review, we selected these areas because they were generally significant to the issuer’s financial statements, may have included complex issues for auditors, and/or involved complex judgments in (1) estimating and auditing the reported value of related accounts and disclosures and (2) implementing and auditing the related controls. 2024 2022 Audit area Audits reviewedAudit areaAudits reviewed Revenue and related accounts 1 Revenue and related accounts 2 Certain assets 1 Significant transactions 2 Significant accounts 1 Long-lived assets 1 Equity and equity-related transactions 1 Inventory 1 Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | 5 PART I: INSPECTION OBSERVATIONS Part I.A of our report discusses deficiencies, if any, that were of such significance that we believe the firm, at the time it issued its audit report(s), had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s) on the issuer’s financial statements and/or ICFR. Part I.B discusses certain deficiencies, if any, that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. Part I.C discusses instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules, if any, related to maintaining independence. Consistent with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Act”), it is the Board’s assessment that nothing in Part I of this report deals with a criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s quality control system. We discuss any such criticisms or potential defects in Part II. Further, you should not infer from any Part I deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, that we identified a quality control finding in Part II. Section 104(g)(2) of the Act restricts us from publicly disclosing Part II deficiencies unless the firm does not address the criticisms or potential defects to the Board’s satisfaction no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. Classification of Audits with Part I.A Deficiencies Within Part I.A of this report, we classify each issuer audit in one of the categories discussed below based on the Part I.A deficiency or deficiencies identified in our review. The purpose of this classification system is to group and present issuer audits by the number of Part I.A deficiencies we identified within the audit as well as to highlight audits with an incorrect opinion on the financial statements and/or ICFR. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR This classification includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s financial statements were determined to be materially misstated, and the issuer restated its financial statements. It also includes instances where a deficiency was identified in connection with our inspection and, as a result, an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective, or there were additional material weaknesses that the firm did not identify, and the firm withdrew its opinion, or revised its report, on ICFR. This classification does not include instances where, unrelated to our review, an issuer restated its financial statements and/or an issuer’s ICFR was determined to be ineffective. We include any deficiencies identified in connection with our reviews of these audits in the audits with multiple deficiencies or audits with a single deficiency classification below. Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | 6 Audits with Multiple Deficiencies This classification includes instances where multiple deficiencies were identified that related to a combination of one or more financial statement accounts, disclosures, and/or important controls in an ICFR audit. Audits with a Single Deficiency This classification includes instances where a single deficiency was identified that related to a financial statement account or disclosure or to an important control in an ICFR audit. PART I.A: AUDITS WITH UNSUPPORTED OPINIONS This section of our report discusses the deficiencies identified, by specific issuer audit reviewed, in the audit work supporting the firm’s opinion on the issuer’s financial statements. We identify each issuer by a letter (e.g., Issuer A). Each deficiency could relate to several auditing standards, but we reference the PCAOB standard that most directly relates to the requirement with which the firm did not comply. We present issuer audits below within their respective deficiency classifications (as discussed previously). Within the classifications, we generally present the audits based on our assessment as to the relative significance of the identified deficiencies, taking into account the significance of the financial statement accounts and/or disclosures affected, and/or the nature or extent of the deficiencies. Audits with an Incorrect Opinion on the Financial Statements and/or ICFR None Audits with Multiple Deficiencies Issuer A Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to Revenue, Certain Assets, and Journal Entries. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to Revenue, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The firm did not identify and evaluate that the issuer’s recognition of revenue was not in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. (AS 2810.30) In addition, the firm did Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | 7 not identify and evaluate the issuer’s omission of certain disclosures related to revenue required by FASB ASC Topic 606. (AS 2810.30 and .31) With respect to Certain Assets: The firm did not perform procedures to evaluate whether the issuer performed an assessment of certain assets for recoverability when the firm was aware of events or changes in circumstances that existed and indicated that the carrying value may not be recoverable. (AS 2301.08; AS 2810.03) In addition, the firm did not identify and evaluate the issuer’s omission of a disclosure related to these assets required by GAAP. (AS 2810.30 and .31) With respect to Journal Entries, for which the firm identified a significant risk: The firm did not perform procedures to identify and select journal entries and other adjustments for testing to address the potential for material misstatement due to fraud. (AS 2401.58) Issuer B Type of audit and related areas affected In our review, we identified deficiencies in the financial statement audit related to a Significant Account and Journal Entries. Description of the deficiencies identified With respect to a Significant Account: The firm did not perform procedures to test the appropriateness of the issuer’s accounting for certain changes to a significant account, beyond obtaining external invoices. (AS 2301.08) With respect to Journal Entries, for which the firm identified a fraud risk: The firm did not perform procedures to identify and select journal entries and other adjustments for testing to address the potential for material misstatement due to fraud. (AS 2401.58) Audits with a Single Deficiency None Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | 8 PART I.B: OTHER INSTANCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH PCAOB STANDARDS OR RULES This section of our report discusses certain deficiencies that relate to instances of non-compliance with PCAOB standards or rules other than those where the firm had not obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support its opinion(s). This section does not discuss instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence. When we review an audit, we do not review every aspect of the audit. As a result, the areas below were not necessarily reviewed on every audit. In some cases, we assess the firm’s compliance with specific PCAOB standards or rules on other audits that were not reviewed and include any instances of non- compliance below. The deficiencies below are presented in numerical order based on the PCAOB standard or rule with which the firm did not comply. We identified the following deficiencies: In the two audits reviewed, the firm added audit documentation subsequent to the 45-day period following the report release date and did not indicate the date the information was added, the name of the person who prepared the additional documentation, and the reason for adding it. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1215, Audit Documentation. In the two audits reviewed, the firm did not include all of the required information in its engagement completion document. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1215, Audit Documentation. In the two audits reviewed, the work papers did not contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection with the engagement, to determine who performed the work and the date such work was completed. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1215, Audit Documentation. In the two audits reviewed, the work papers did not contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection with the engagement, to understand all of the procedures performed by the engagement quality reviewer, including the procedures that the engagement quality reviewer performed to evaluate the engagement team’s responses to the significant risks identified. In these instances, the documentation of the engagement quality review was non-compliant with AS 1220, Engagement Quality Review. In one of two audits reviewed, the firm did not communicate to the audit committee all of the significant risks it identified through its risk assessment procedures. In addition, in the other audit reviewed, the firm (1) did not make a required communication to the audit committee related to the significant risks identified through its risk assessment procedures and (2) communicated that a risk was significant when the firm had not identified it as such. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In the two audits reviewed, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to (1) the firm’s evaluation of the issuer’s ability to continue as a going Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | 9 concern and (2) the name, location, and planned responsibilities of an other accounting firm that performed audit procedures in the audit. In addition, in these two audits, the firm made an inaccurate communication to the audit committee related to a critical accounting estimate. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In the two audits reviewed, the firm did not provide or discuss with the audit committee a draft of the firm’s audit report. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 1301, Communications with Audit Committees. In the two audits reviewed, the firm did not perform procedures to determine whether all individuals who participated in the audit were in compliance with independence requirements. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2101, Audit Planning. In the two audits reviewed, the firm did not identify and assess the risks of material misstatement related to one or more significant accounts and disclosures. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In one of two audits reviewed, the firm did not identify a fraud risk related to the risk of management override of controls. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2110, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement. In the two audits reviewed, the firm did not make certain required communications to the audit committee related to its evaluation of the issuer’s identification of, accounting for, and disclosure of its relationships and transactions with related parties. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2410, Related Parties. In one of two audits reviewed, the firm did not take appropriate action with respect to the issuer’s disclosure that its internal control over financial reporting was effective despite the firm’s awareness that the issuer’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 2710, Other Information in Documents Containing Audited Financial Statements. In one audit, the year the firm began serving consecutively as the company’s auditor that was included in the firm’s audit report was incorrect. In this instance, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. In two audits, the firm’s audit report included introductory language for a report with critical audit matters even though the audit report stated that there were no critical audit matters. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion. In one audit, in which the predecessor auditor’s report was not presented, the firm’s audit report did not indicate that the financial statements of the prior period were audited by another auditor, the date of the predecessor auditor’s report, and the type of report issued by the Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | 10 predecessor auditor. In addition, in this audit, the firm also inaccurately stated in the audit report that it audited the prior year financial statements and related notes. In these instances, the firm was non-compliant with AS 3101, The Auditor’s Report on an Audit of Financial Statements When the Auditor Expresses an Unqualified Opinion, and AS 3105, Departures from Unqualified Opinions and Other Reporting Circumstances. In two audits, the firm did not file its report on Form AP by the relevant deadline. In addition, in one of these audits, the firm’s report on Form AP did not indicate that the audit report was dual- dated and the date of the dual-dated information. In these instances, the firm was non- compliant with PCAOB Rule 3211, Auditor Reporting of Certain Audit Participants. PART I.C: INDEPENDENCE In the 2024 inspection, we did not identify, and the firm did not bring to our attention, any instances of potential non-compliance with SEC rules or instances of non-compliance with PCAOB rules related to maintaining independence.Although this section does not include any instances of potential non- compliance that we identified or the firm brought to our attention, there may be instances of non- compliance with SEC or PCAOB rules related to independence that were not identified through our procedures or the firm’s monitoring activities. While the firm did not bring to our attention any instances of potential non-compliance, the number, large or small, of firm-identified instances of potential non-compliance may be reflective of the size of the firm, including the number of associated firms; the design and effectiveness of the firm’s independence monitoring activities; and the size and/or complexity of the issuers it audits, including the number of affiliates of those issuers. Therefore, we caution against making any comparison of firm- identified instances of potential non-compliance across firms. Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | 11 PART II: OBSERVATIONS RELATED TO QUALITY CONTROL Part II of our report discusses criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control. We include deficiencies in Part II if an analysis of the inspection results, including the results of the reviews of individual audits, indicates that the firm’s system of quality control does not provide reasonable assurance that firm personnel will comply with applicable professional standards and requirements. Generally, the report’s description of quality control criticisms is based on observations from our inspection procedures. This report does not reflect changes or improvements to the firm’s system of quality control that the firm may have made subsequent to the period covered by our inspection. The Board does consider such changes or improvements in assessing whether the firm has satisfactorily addressed the quality control criticisms or defects no later than 12 months after the issuance of this report. When we issue our reports, we do not make public criticisms of, and potential defects in, the firm’s system of quality control, to the extent any are identified. If a firm does not address to the Board’s satisfaction any criticism of, or potential defect in, the firm’s system of quality control within 12 months after the issuance of our report, we will make public any such deficiency. Dylan Floyd Accounting & Consulting, PCAOB Release No. 104-2025-108, June 26, 2025 | A-1 APPENDIX A: FIRM’S RESPONSE TO THE DRAFT INSPECTION REPORT A- Pursuant to Section 104(f) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7214(f), and PCAOB Rule 4007(a), the Board provided the firm an opportunity to review and comment on a draft of this report. The firm did not provide a written response. A-1 |