Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Summary: The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) celebrated its Tenth Annual Day at Bharat Mandapam, New Delhi, marking ten years since its establishment on 1 October 2016. Minister of State for Corporate Affairs and Road Transport and Highways, Shri Harsh Malhotra, said the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 has strengthened credit discipline, improved the recovery climate and contributed to ease of doing business. He emphasised the need for faster, value-maximising resolutions and greater adoption of emerging technologies, including artificial intelligence, across the insolvency ecosystem. Justice Shri Anupinder Singh Grewal, President of the National Company Law Tribunal, highlighted measures to reduce disposal delays and improve the speed of resolution-plan approvals, while identifying possible future reforms including revision of admission thresholds, mediation and sector-specific carve-outs. Shri Indevar Pandey, Member of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, reflected on the evolution of insolvency jurisprudence and noted the amendments made to the Code over the past decade. Shri Ansuman Pattnaik, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, highlighted policy reforms including the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act, 2026. IBBI Chairperson Shri Jayanti Prasad highlighted substantial creditor recoveries, rescue of viable businesses and changes in debtor-creditor behaviour over the decade. The event also saw the release of the annual publication “Shaping the Next Decade of IBC: The Road Ahead” and felicitation of winners of the 7th National Online Quiz on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. Ministry of Corporate Affairs Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code has strengthened credit discipline, improved recovery climate and contributed to ease of doing business: Harsh Malhotra, MoS, Corporate Affairs Ministry Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) celebrates its Tenth Annual Day Posted On: 01 OCT 2026 10:06PM by PIB Delhi Minister of State for Corporate Affairs Ministry and Road Transport and Highways, Shri Harsh Malhotra inaugurated the 10th Annual Day celebrations of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) at Bharat Mandapam, New Delhi today, marking ten years of IBBI since its establishment on 1st October, 2016. Chief guest Shri Harsh Malhotra in his inaugural address, observed that the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC) has strengthened credit discipline, improved the recovery climate and contributed to the ease of doing business in the country. He noted the Government’s commitment to keep the Code responsive to emerging needs, including through the recent legislative amendments, and urged all stakeholders to work towards faster and value-maximising resolutions in the decade ahead. MoS Shri Malhotra highlighted the need for improved adoption of emerging technologies, including AI, in IBC ecosystem. He noted that the efforts should be made towards faster resolutions and value maximisation as way forward. Justice Shri Anupinder Singh Grewal, Hon’ble President, National Company Law Tribunal, reflected to the role of the Adjudicating Authority in the IBC framework. He highlighted the steps being taken to reduce delays in disposal of cases and recent improvements in speedier disposal of resolution plans. He noted various areas of reforms that may be considered in coming times including revision in admission thresholds, use of mediation, sector specific carveouts, etc. Shri Indevar Pandey, Hon’ble Member, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal shared his perspective on the evolution of insolvency jurisprudence over the decade and the issues that may be considered in coming times. He highlighted that the IBC has seen seven sets of amendments to the Code in the last ten years. While noting the constraints involved in amending laws, he appreciated that amendments to the Code and regulations are being carried out in line with emerging needs in a timely manner. While noting the positive outcomes of IBC, he emphasised the need for timelines to be respected by all stakeholders. Shri Ansuman Pattnaik, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, while noting the achievements of the IBC, highlighted the policy reforms undertaken to strengthen the Code, including the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act, 2026. He noted key aspects of the amendment act and outlined the areas for the next phase of reforms in IBC framework and ecosystem. Welcoming the guests, Shri Jayanti Prasad, Chairperson, IBBI, reflected on the ten-year journey of the Code and the Board. He noted that IBC has enabled substantial recoveries for creditors, rescued viable businesses across sectors, and brought about a lasting change in debtor–creditor behaviour. He observed that the ecosystem now comprises over 4,400 Insolvency Professionals and over 6,000 Registered Valuers, highlighting the responsive, participative and evidence-based approach to regulation-making being adopted by IBBI. As part of the Tenth Annual Day celebrations, an annual publication, “Shaping the Next Decade of IBC: The Road Ahead”, was released during the event. On this occasion, winners of the 7th National Online Quiz on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, were also felicitated. The event was also graced by imminent dignitaries like Justice Shri Anupinder Singh Grewal, Hon’ble President, National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Shri Indevar Pandey, Hon’ble Member, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal; and Shri Ansuman Pattnaik, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs also honoured the occasion with their gracious presence. The event was also attended by Shri Jayanti Prasad, Chairperson, IBBI; Shri Sandip Garg, whole Time Member, IBBI; and Shri Bhushan Kumar Sinha, whole Time Member, IBBI. The event witnessed participation of eminent dignitaries and key stakeholders of the insolvency ecosystem. *** Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India Press Release No. IBBI/PR/2026/17 | Dated: 1st October, 2026 Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India celebrates its Tenth Annual Day The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) today celebrated its Tenth Annual Day at Bharat Mandapam, New Delhi, marking ten years since its establishment on 1st October, 2016. The event was graced by Shri Harsh Malhotra, Hon’ble Minister of State for Corporate Affairs and Road Transport and Highways as the Chief Guest. Justice Shri Anupinder Singh Grewal, Hon’ble President, National Company Law Tribunal; Shri Indevar Pandey, Hon’ble Member, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal; and Shri Ansuman Pattnaik, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs also honoured the occasion with their gracious presence. The event was also attended by Shri Jayanti Prasad, Chairperson, IBBI; Shri Sandip Garg, Whole Time Member, IBBI; and Shri Bhushan Kumar Sinha, Whole Time Member, IBBI. 2. Shri Harsh Malhotra, Hon’ble Minister of State, in his address, observed that the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (IBC) has strengthened credit discipline, improved the recovery climate and contributed to the ease of doing business in the country. He noted the Government’s commitment to keep the Code responsive to emerging needs, including through the recent legislative amendments, and urged all stakeholders to work towards faster and value-maximising resolutions in the decade ahead. He highlighted need for improved adoption of emerging technologies, including AI, in IBC ecosystem. He noted that the efforts should be made towards faster resolutions and value maximisation as way forward. 3. Justice Shri Anupinder Singh Grewal, Hon’ble President, National Company Law Tribunal, reflected to the role of the Adjudicating Authority in the IBC framework. He highlighted the steps being taken to reduce delays in disposal of cases and recent improvements in speedier disposal of resolution plans. He noted various areas of reforms that may be considered in coming times including revision in admission thresholds, use of mediation, sector specific carveouts, etc. He appreciated the IBBI’s consultative approach to regulation-making and its efforts in building capacity in the ecosystem. 4. Shri Indevar Pandey, Hon’ble Member, National Company Law Appellate Tribunal shared his perspective on the evolution of insolvency jurisprudence over the decade and the issues that may be considered in coming times. He highlighted that the IBC has seen seven sets of amendments to the Code in the last ten years. While noting the constraints involved in amending laws, he appreciated that amendments to the Code and regulations are being carried out in line with emerging needs in a timely manner. While noting the positive outcomes of IBC, he emphasised the need for timelines to be respected by all stakeholders. 5. Shri Ansuman Pattnaik, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, while noting the achievements of the IBC, highlighted the policy reforms undertaken to strengthen the Code, including the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act, 2026. He noted key aspects of the amendment act. He also outlined the areas for the next phase of reforms in IBC framework and ecosystem. 6. Welcoming the guests, Shri Jayanti Prasad, Chairperson, IBBI, reflected on the ten-year journey of the Code and the Board. He noted that the IBC has enabled substantial recoveries for creditors, rescued viable businesses across sectors, and brought about a lasting change in debtor–creditor behaviour. He observed that the ecosystem now comprises over 4,400 Insolvency Professionals and over 6,000 Registered Valuers. He highlighted the responsive, participative and evidence-based approach to regulation-making being adopted by IBBI. 7. As part of the Tenth Annual Day celebrations, an annual publication, “Shaping the Next Decade of IBC: The Road Ahead”, was released during the event. On this occasion, winners of the 7th National Online Quiz on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, were also felicitated. 8. The event witnessed participation of eminent dignitaries and key stakeholders of the insolvency ecosystem, including officers from the Government and regulatory bodies, representatives of insolvency professional agencies and registered valuers’ organisations, insolvency professionals, registered valuers, representatives from industry associations, financial institutions, academicians and students of post graduate insolvency programme. 9. Shri Sandip Garg, Whole Time Member, IBBI, extended a hearty vote of thanks at the conclusion of the event. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under bankruptcy codeIBC 2016 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law NOIDA & GNIDA Lease Dues Remain Unsecured Without General First Charge: NCLAT October 2, 2026 Speaker Cannot Disqualify MLA Till End of Assembly Term Under Tenth Schedule: SC October 2, 2026 Bombay HC Refuses to Quash MPID FIR Against Director Over Rs. 1.31 Crore Depositor Funds October 2, 2026 PMLA Proceedings Cannot Be Quashed on Issues Already Considered Earlier: Karnataka HC October 2, 2026 Fresh Predicate FIR Can Sustain Existing ECIR but Quashed FIRs Cannot Support PMLA Probe: Delhi HC October 2, 2026 ECIR Cannot Be Quashed Under Section 482 CrPC as Registration Is Administrative Act: Madras HC October 2, 2026