Summary: The distinction between composite and mixed supplies under GST determines whether a bundled transaction is taxed at the rate applicable to its principal supply or at the highest rate applicable to any component. Sections 2(30), 2(74), 2(90) and 8 of the CGST Act provide the statutory framework, with the central inquiry being whether multiple supplies are naturally bundled in the ordinary course of business and whether one can be identified as the principal supply. Judicial and advance ruling authorities have applied this test to healthcare, diagnostic equipment, EPC contracts, hospitality and other bundled transactions, demonstrating that classification remains highly fact-sensitive. The issue has become more consequential following the GST 2.0 rate rationalisation effective from 22 September 2025, particularly where a mixed supply contains an item falling within the 40% sin-and-luxury band. In such cases, Section 8(b) can cause the entire bundle to attract the highest rate even where the high-rated component represents only a small part of its value. The current framework also creates difficulties because “naturally bundled” is not exhaustively defined, advance rulings lack general precedential effect, and emerging business models frequently combine goods and services in ways not specifically addressed by statutory deeming provisions. Greater sector-specific CBIC guidance and proactive taxpayer review of contractual, pricing and invoicing arrangements could therefore reduce classification disputes. Table of Contents▸ Introduction Part II: Legal Framework Section 2(30) – Composite Supply Section 2(74) – Mixed Supply Section 8 – Tax Liability on Composite and Mixed Supplies Part III: Contemporary / Practical Analysis Part IV: Critical Discussion Conclusion and Suggestions References Show all 9 sections Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Introduction Every business that sells more than one thing together a hotel room with breakfast, a mobile phone with a charger, a festival gift hamper, an annual maintenance contract that bundles spare parts with repair labour eventually runs into the same GST question: is this one taxable supply, or is it several taxable supplies happening to travel under one invoice? The Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 answers this through two deceptively simple concepts: “composite supply” and “mixed supply.” The answer is never merely academic. Get the classification right, and a single, predictable tax rate applies to the entire transaction. Get it wrong, and a business can find itself under-taxed inviting demand notices, interest under Section 50, and penalty proceedings or over-taxed, quietly losing price competitiveness on every invoice it raises. The issue has taken on fresh urgency since the 56th GST Council Meeting rolled out what is popularly called “GST 2.0” a rationalised, largely two-slab rate structure of 5% and 18%, with a separate 40% band reserved for sin and luxury goods, effective 22 September 2025. Before this reform, India’s GST rate schedule spread goods and services across four principal slabs (5%, 12%, 18% and 28%), so the financial gap between being taxed as a composite supply (at the principal supply’s rate) versus a mixed supply (at the highest rate among the bundled items) was frequently a matter of a few percentage points. Under the rationalised structure, that gap can now be as wide as thirty-five percentage points where even one component of a bundle falls in the 40% band. The stakes of getting the classification right have therefore grown considerably. This blog examines the statutory framework governing composite and mixed supplies under Sections 2(30), 2(74) and 8 of the CGST Act; traces how advance ruling authorities and courts have applied the “naturally bundled” test in practice; analyses why the distinction has become sharper and more consequential under the GST 2.0 rate structure; and critically evaluates the gaps that remain in the current framework, before offering concrete suggestions for both regulators and taxpayers. Part II: Legal Framework The statutory foundation lies in three interlocking provisions of the CGST Act, supplemented by Schedule II entries and CBIC’s clarificatory materials. Section 2(30) – Composite Supply A composite supply is defined as a supply made by a taxable person to a recipient, consisting of two or more taxable supplies of goods or services, or both, or any combination thereof, which are naturally bundled and supplied in conjunction with each other in the ordinary course of business, one of which is a principal supply. Two conditions must be satisfied conjunctively: (i) the supplies must be naturally bundled that is, they must ordinarily go together in the trade concerned, not merely as a matter of the seller’s commercial convenience; and (ii) one supply must be identifiable as the principal supply, meaning the predominant element to which the other supplies are ancillary or incidental. The illustration used in Section 2(90) (the definition of “principal supply”) and in CBIC’s explanatory material is the transportation of goods together with packing, loading, insurance and transit services the transportation of goods remains the principal supply, and the entire bundle is taxed at the rate applicable to the transport of goods, regardless of the individual rates that might apply to insurance or packing services if sold independently. Section 2(74) – Mixed Supply A mixed supply, by contrast, is defined residually: two or more individual supplies of goods or services, or any combination thereof, made in conjunction with each other for a single price, where such supply does not constitute a composite supply. The defining feature here is independence each item in the bundle is capable of being supplied separately in the ordinary course of business, and their combination reflects a commercial packaging choice rather than any functional or trade necessity. The oft-cited illustration is a supplier packing canned foods, sweets, chocolates, cakes, dry fruits and aerated drinks into a single gift box, sold for one price here, each item is an independent supply commonly sold on its own, and none is more “principal” than the others. Section 8 – Tax Liability on Composite and Mixed Supplies This is the operative charging provision that this blog is centrally concerned with. Section 8(a) provides that a composite supply comprising two or more supplies, one of which is a principal supply, is treated as a supply of that principal supply meaning the rate, exemption status and place-of-supply rules applicable to the principal supply govern the entire transaction. Section 8(b) provides that a mixed supply is treated as a supply of that particular supply which attracts the highest rate of tax a deliberately blunt, anti-avoidance rule intended to prevent a taxpayer from bundling a high-rated item with several low-rated items in order to dilute the effective tax incidence on the whole package. Because the statute does not define what makes a bundle “naturally” occurring, the interpretive burden has fallen on advance ruling authorities (AARs), appellate authorities (AAARs) and the courts, which have generally applied a cluster of indicative tests carried over from pre-GST service tax jurisprudence on “naturally bundled services” under Section 66F of the erstwhile Finance Act, 1994: whether there is a single, undifferentiated price for the package; whether the components are marketed and perceived by the recipient as one composite product rather than several discrete ones; whether the majority of customers in that trade would expect the components together; and whether withdrawing one component would materially alter the nature of what is being supplied. Three rulings illustrate how fact-sensitive this exercise is in practice. In ST. Thomas Hospital, In re (AAR Kerala, Advance Ruling No. KER/108/2021, dated 26 May 2021, reported at 2021 (52) GSTL 474 (AAR-GST-Ker)), the applicant hospital sought a ruling on whether medicines, implants, surgical consumables and food supplied to in-patients formed part of a composite supply of healthcare services. The AAR held that these items were naturally bundled with the principal supply of healthcare, since an admitted in-patient cannot meaningfully separate the medicine or implant from the treatment being administered and because healthcare services are exempt under Notification No. 12/2017-Central Tax (Rate), the entire composite supply escaped GST. By contrast, in Abbott Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of State Tax (Kerala High Court, 2020 (34) G.S.T.L. 579 (Ker.); also reported as 2020-VIL-08-KER), the Kerala High Court took a markedly more cautious approach. The applicant, a pharmaceutical company, placed diagnostic instruments free of cost with hospitals while separately selling the reagents and consumables that the instruments required for operation. The AAR and the Appellate AAR below had both characterized this arrangement as a composite supply, with the placement of the instrument treated as ancillary to the principal supply of reagents. The High Court set aside that finding and remanded the matter, holding in effect that commercial interdependence between two arrangements is not, by itself, sufficient to establish natural bundling each case demands a fact-specific inquiry into whether the supplies are genuinely inseparable in the ordinary course of that trade, or whether they merely happen to be commercially linked by one supplier’s business model. A further layer of complexity arises in works contracts and EPC (engineering, procurement and construction) arrangements. A contract must first satisfy the definition of a “works contract” in Section 2(119) of the CGST Act, including its requirement concerning immovable property. Schedule II, paragraph 6(a) then treats a composite supply of works contract as a supply of services. It does not automatically classify every EPC contract as a works contract. The nature of the property and the contract must therefore be examined before applying the GST rate relevant to works contract services. Part III: Contemporary / Practical Analysis The GST 2.0 rate rationalisation of September 2025 has sharpened the practical stakes of this classification exercise considerably and has done so in a way the drafters of Sections 2(30), 2(74) and 8 in 2017 could not have anticipated. Under the earlier four-slab structure (5%, 12%, 18%, 28%, with cess on select items), the gap between a composite supply’s principal-supply rate and a mixed supply’s highest-component rate was often modest a hamper combining a 12% item with an 18% item meant a swing of only six percentage points depending on how it was classified. Under the rationalised structure, with the bulk of goods and services consolidated into either a 5% merit band or an 18% standard band, and a distinct 40% band carved out specifically for sin and luxury items (aerated and caffeinated beverages and select luxury and high-end automobiles; tobacco and pan masala remain at 28% plus compensation cess for the time being, and will migrate to the 40% band only once the Centre’s compensation-cess-related loan obligations are discharged), the financial consequence of a mixed-supply finding involving even a single item from the 40% band is dramatic. A bundle otherwise composed entirely of 5%-rated goods could, under the mechanical rule in Section 8(b), be taxed wholesale at 40% if just one component falls within that band. This has direct, quantifiable implications for sectors that routinely bundle products for retail or promotional purposes. Consider a corporate gifting business assembling festive hampers containing dry snacks (5%), dry fruits (5%) and a branded energy drink (40% under the revised schedule, as aerated and caffeinated beverages were moved into the sin-goods band). If tax authorities determine correctly, on the facts that this is a mixed supply, because each item is independently marketed, separately priced in the trade, and not naturally bundled with the others, then under Section 8(b) the entire hamper attracts 40% GST, even though the energy drink might represent a fraction of the hamper’s total value. Before GST 2.0, the same hamper (with, say, a 12%-rated confectionery item as the highest-rated component) would have faced a comparatively modest 12% levy on the whole bundle. This nearly threefold increase in effective tax exposure illustrates why bundled-product businesses can no longer treat Section 8 classification as a compliance afterthought; it has become a live pricing and product-design variable that must be assessed before, not after, a product bundle is launched. A comparable tension is visible in infrastructure, logistics and industrial services contracts, where the amounts at stake are considerably larger than in consumer retail. Disputes over whether the transportation of goods bundled together with allied logistics functions for instance, the transport of fly ash generated at thermal power plants, combined with loading, unloading and disposal services within a specified radius constitute a single composite supply of transportation, or several independently taxable supplies, have reached High Courts under Section 8 in recent years. These disputes show that the “naturally bundled” test remains genuinely contestable even in sophisticated, heavily negotiated commercial contracts, where each service component may be separately priced and itemized in the underlying agreement for commercial-accounting reasons a factor that can, on one reading, cut against a finding of natural bundling, even where the contracting parties clearly intended and executed a single integrated commercial outcome. The hospitality and healthcare sectors present a third, ongoing area of contemporary friction. Hotels bundling room accommodation with complimentary breakfast, or hospitals bundling room rent with nursing care and consumables, continue to generate advance ruling applications precisely because the GST 2.0 rate compression has narrowed the room-rent exemption thresholds and altered the effective rates applicable to hospitality services, making the classification of bundled hotel and healthcare packages a recurring point of dispute between taxpayers seeking composite-supply treatment (to benefit from a single, often lower, principal-supply rate) and revenue authorities scrutinising whether genuine natural bundling exists or whether the arrangement is, in substance, two or more independently priced mixed supplies. Part IV: Critical Discussion Four difficulties persist in the current framework, and each has been amplified, not resolved, by the GST 2.0 rate rationalisation. First, the absence of a statutory or CBIC-notified checklist for what makes a bundle “naturally” occurring leaves taxpayers reliant on a fragmented and occasionally inconsistent body of state-level AAR rulings, which bind only the parties before that particular authority and carry no precedential value even within the same state, let alone across states. A hospital’s bundled consumables may be treated as a composite supply of healthcare in one state’s AAR, while a structurally similar arrangement is questioned or denied composite-supply status in another producing genuine, unresolved uncertainty for pan-India businesses attempting to standardise their contracts and invoicing practices nationally. Second, the mechanical “highest rate” rule for mixed supplies under Section 8(b), while a defensible anti-avoidance measure in principle, is entirely indifferent to intent. It does not distinguish between a bundle deliberately engineered to dilute tax liability and an ordinary commercial packaging decision undertaken purely for merchandising convenience, with no tax-avoidance motive whatsoever. Post-GST 2.0, this indifference to intent means an entirely innocuous product bundle a gift hamper, a promotional combo, a subscription box can attract the 40% sin/luxury rate purely because of the mechanical composition test, producing outcomes that are disproportionate to any legitimate revenue-protection rationale the provision was designed to serve. Third, the interplay between Section 8 and the newly widened rate bands creates a perverse incentive toward artificial commercial restructuring. Businesses may now be pushed to price and invoice components separately, or to market them under separate transactions rather than a single bundled offering, purely to avoid mixed-supply characterisation even where bundling reflects genuine commercial convenience for the customer and no revenue-avoidance intent whatsoever. This risks converting a classification test that was meant to capture underlying economic substance into a formalistic, largely paperwork-driven exercise in invoice drafting, which runs contrary to the GST regime’s stated objective of reducing compliance-driven distortions in commercial behaviour. Fourth, the sector-specific deeming fictions in Schedule II (such as the treatment of works contracts as composite supplies of services) exist for only a narrow set of transactions. Outside these legislatively resolved categories, taxpayers in emerging bundled-service models software-as-a-service bundled with implementation support, subscription boxes, hybrid retail-and-service offerings have no comparable statutory certainty and must rely entirely on the general, fact-intensive Section 2(30)/2(74) test, with all the interpretive unpredictability that entails. Conclusion and Suggestions The composite–mixed supply distinction, always a fact-sensitive exercise resting on the ordinary commercial understanding of “natural bundling,” has become considerably higher-stakes under the rationalised two-slab GST regime introduced in September 2025. The core statutory tests under Sections 2(30), 2(74) and 8 of the CGST Act remain textually unchanged, but the financial consequences of misclassification have grown sharply more severe, particularly for any bundle touching the newly created 40% sin-and-luxury band, where the cost of an incorrect mixed-supply finding can now be several multiples of what it would have been under the pre-2025 rate structure. Two sets of measures would meaningfully reduce this uncertainty going forward. On the regulatory side, the CBIC would do well to issue an updated, sector-specific set of illustrative examples reflecting the post-2025 rate structure, building on its earlier explanatory flyers on composite and mixed supply, so that recurring commercial bundles gift hampers, hospitality packages, healthcare consumables, subscription and combo offerings have clearer, centrally issued classificatory guidance rather than being left to divergent, non-binding state AAR rulings. A consolidated circular addressing the specific interaction between Section 8(b) and the 40% band would be particularly valuable, given how disproportionately that band now affects mixed-supply outcomes. On the compliance side, businesses engaged in the bundled supply of goods or services spanning differentiated rate bands should proactively review their pricing, contractual structuring and invoicing practices not with a view to artificially engineering around the classification rules, but to ensure that invoicing accurately reflects the genuine commercial character of each transaction, thereby reducing exposure to demand notices, interest and penalty proceedings arising from disputed classification. Where a bundle genuinely straddles the composite/mixed boundary, seeking an advance ruling before launch, rather than after a dispute arises, remains the most reliable way to obtain certainty. Until such regulatory clarity emerges, taxpayers, tax practitioners and students of indirect tax law alike would do well to treat every bundled commercial offering as a classification question requiring documented, first-principles analysis under Sections 2(30), 2(74) and 8 rather than a matter of routine assumption. As GST 2.0 continues to be implemented and interpreted over the coming years, this small but consequential corner of the statute is likely to remain one of the most actively litigated areas of Indian indirect tax law. References Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, ss. 2(30), 2(74), 2(90), 8, and Schedule II para 6(a). Abbott Healthcare Pvt. Ltd. v. Commissioner of State Tax, Kerala High Court, 2020 (34) G.S.T.L. 579 (Ker.) / 2020-VIL-08-KER. ST. Thomas Hospital, In re, AAR Kerala, Advance Ruling No. KER/108/2021, dated 26-05-2021, 2021 (52) GSTL 474 (AAR-GST-Ker). Notification No. 12/2017-Central Tax (Rate) (exemption for healthcare services). 56th GST Council Meeting, GST 2.0 rate rationalisation, effective 22 September 2025. CBIC / GST Council, “Composite Supply and Mixed Supply” explanatory flyer. Finance Act, 1994, s. 66F (pre-GST “naturally bundled services” test, as judicially carried forward). Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Composite supplyGoods And Services TaxGSTMixed Supply Author Info Name: Leya Mariyam Benny Qualification: Student - Others Location: Adoor, Kerala Articles Published: 2 View full profile → More from Leya Mariyam Benny Article 265 & Constitutional Limits on Taxation Power in India: A Shield against Arbitrary Taxation February 24, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Missing Sales & Purchase Invoices: GST Revocation Application Permitted by Telangana HC September 24, 2026 GST Cancellation Appeal Allowed With Delay Condonation Plea: Telangana HC September 24, 2026 GST Portal Communication Facility for Supplier-Recipient Document Issues September 24, 2026 GST Refund Deficiency Memo Invalid Beyond Rule 90(2) Scope: Kerala HC September 24, 2026 What Counts as a Supply? Decoding Section 7 and GST Taxable Event September 24, 2026 Constitutional Foundation of GST: Articles, Powers & Cooperative Federalism September 24, 2026