Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 13238 Case Name Upper Vantage LLP Vs Deputy State Tax Officer and Two Others (Telangana High Court) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts All High Courts, Telangana High Court Upgrade to Basic or Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Upper Vantage LLP Vs Deputy State Tax Officer and Two Others (Telangana High Court) Telangana High Court Allows Physical Filing of GST Revocation Application After Portal Restricts Online Filing SEO Title: Telangana High Court Permits Physical GST Revocation Application After Portal Deadline SEO Description: Telangana High Court permits physical filing of GST revocation application where the portal did not accept filing beyond the prescribed time limit. The Telangana High Court granted a taxpayer whose GST registration had been cancelled for non-filing of returns liberty to submit an application for revocation in physical form. The Court directed the jurisdictional authority to entertain the application and decide it in accordance with law. The relief was granted after the petitioner submitted that no GST dues remained outstanding and that the GST portal did not permit filing of the revocation application because the prescribed time limit had expired. The Court did not itself restore the registration or determine the petitioner’s liability. Introduction The Telangana High Court in M/s. Upper Vantage LLP vs Deputy State Tax Officer & Others considered a writ petition seeking revocation of cancellation of GST registration. The petitioner’s registration was cancelled through FORM GST REG-19 dated 25.06.2025 on the ground of non-filing of returns for the prescribed periods. The writ petition was filed on 20.08.2026. Case Background The petitioner approached the High Court after the statutory time limit for filing an application for revocation had expired and the GST portal would not accept the application. The petitioner submitted that its accountant had not filed the returns due to personal inconvenience and that the delay was not intentional. It also asserted that no outstanding GST dues remained payable. Petitioner’s Contentions The petitioner submitted that: No outstanding GST dues remained to be paid. The returns were not filed because the accountant had failed to file them due to personal inconvenience. The non-filing and delay were not intentional. The GST portal did not permit submission of the revocation application because the prescribed time limit had expired. The competent authority should be directed to accept the application manually and decide it in accordance with law. Respondent’s Stand The State Tax Department stated that it had no instructions on the petitioner’s assertion that no outstanding dues remained. The respondents confirmed that the registration had been cancelled for non-filing of returns. They further submitted that the competent authority could entertain a physical application because the GST portal did not permit submission beyond the prescribed time limit, and that the application would be considered in accordance with law. Court’s Observations and Directions Having regard to the facts and circumstances, and noting that the registration had been cancelled for non-filing of returns, the High Court granted liberty to the petitioner to approach the competent authority. The Court directed that if the petitioner approached the authority within one week for submission of an application for revocation of cancellation in physical form, the authority would entertain the application and decide it in accordance with law within three weeks thereafter. Final Judgment The Telangana High Court: 1. Granted liberty to the petitioner to approach the competent authority for revocation of cancellation of GST registration. 2. Required the petitioner to submit the application in physical form within one week. 3. Directed the competent authority to entertain the application. 4. Directed the authority to decide the application in accordance with law within three weeks thereafter. 5. Disposed of the writ petition without an order as to costs. Author’s Analysis 1. Physical Filing Where the GST Portal Does Not Permit Submission The order addresses the procedural difficulty faced by a taxpayer when the GST portal does not accept a revocation application because the prescribed time limit has expired. The Court permitted the petitioner to submit the application in physical form to the competent authority. 2. Opportunity to Seek Revocation, Not Automatic Restoration The High Court did not itself revoke the cancellation or direct immediate restoration of the GST registration. It granted liberty to submit an application and directed the competent authority to consider it in accordance with law. 3. Outstanding Dues Were Not Finally Determined The petitioner asserted that no GST dues remained outstanding, but the respondents stated that they had no instructions on that assertion. The order does not record a finding that all dues had been paid. The authority is required to consider the application in accordance with law. Conclusion In M/s. Upper Vantage LLP vs Deputy State Tax Officer & Others, W.P. No. 28027 of 2026, the Telangana High Court granted the petitioner an opportunity to submit a physical application for revocation of GST registration cancellation, after the GST portal did not permit online filing beyond the prescribed time limit. The petitioner was required to approach the competent authority within one week, and the authority was directed to entertain and decide the application in accordance with law within three weeks thereafter. The Court did not itself restore the registration or decide the merits of the revocation request. FULL TEXT OF THE JUDGMENT/ORDER OF TELANGANA HIGH COURT Sri K.P. Amarnath Reddy, learned counsel appears for petitioner. Sri Sai Akarsh, learned Assistant Government Pleader appears for Sri Swaroop Oorilla, learned Government Pleader for State Tax, for respondents. 2. The GST registration of the petitioner bearing No.36AAHFU4029Q1ZK was cancelled vide Order for Cancellation of Registration passed in Form GST REG-19 dated 25.06.2025 for non-filing of returns for prescribed periods. The Writ Petition was filed on 20.08.2026 for revocation of the cancellation of GST registration of the petitioner. 3. Learned counsel for the petitioner submits that there are no outstanding GST dues left to be paid by the petitioner. It is submitted that non-filing of returns was for the reason that its Accountant had not filed returns due to personal inconvenience and there was no intentional delay. Though the petitioner has sought to file an application for revocation of cancellation of GST registration, the GST portal does not permit it as being beyond the time limit prescribed for submission. Therefore, he prays that respondent No.1 may be directed to entertain the petitioner’s application manually and take a decision thereupon in accordance with law. 4. Learned counsel appearing for the respondents submits that he does not have instruction on the assertion that no outstanding dues remain against the petitioner. The cancellation of GST registration was only on account of non-filing of returns for prescribed periods. He submits that if the petitioner is directed to approach respondent No.1, its application can be entertained manually as the GST portal does not permit submission of application beyond the prescribed time limit. It is also submitted that respondent No.1 would consider the application in accordance with law. 5. Having regard to the aforesaid facts and circumstances and also taking note of the fact that the GST registration of the petitioner was cancelled on account of non-filing of returns for prescribed periods, in case the petitioner approaches respondent No.1 within a period of one week from today for submission of application for revocation of cancellation of GST registration in physical form, respondent No.1 would entertain it and take a decision thereupon, in accordance with law, within a period of three weeks thereafter. Therefore, the instant Writ Petition is disposed of. There shall be no order as to costs. Miscellaneous applications, if any pending, shall stand closed. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under Goods And Services TaxGSThigh court judgments Author Info Name: ADV AKRUTI GOYAL (CA) Qualification: LL.B / Advocate Company: ADV AKRUTI GOYAL, ADVOCATE AND LEGAL CONSULTANT Location: Hyderabad, Telangana Articles Published: 233 View full profile → More from ADV AKRUTI GOYAL (CA) Telangana HC Permits Physical GST Revocation Application After Portal Deadline September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Sets Aside GST Appeal Rejection for Fresh Consideration September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Grants Two Weeks’ Protection from GST Recovery to Enable Statutory Appeal September 17, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Goods and Services Tax Telangana HC Permits Physical GST Revocation Application After Portal Deadline September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Sets Aside GST Appeal Rejection for Fresh Consideration September 17, 2026 Telangana HC Grants Two Weeks’ Protection from GST Recovery to Enable Statutory Appeal September 17, 2026 GST Portal Technical Issue: Telangana HC Permits Physical Filing of GST Revocation Application September 17, 2026 CGST Delhi South Arrests Partner for Fraudulent ITC Availment of Over Rs. 15.78 Crore September 17, 2026 Delhi HC on Proper Officer for Section 122 Penalties & Pre-Deposit for Pre-Oct 1, 2025 SCNs September 16, 2026