Case Law Details TaxGuru Citation 2026 taxguru.in 14356 Case Name Thothappa Nainar Mohamed Sirajdheen Vs Intex Technologies (India) Ltd. (NCLAT Delhi) Appeal Number Only available for paid members Date of Judgement/Order Only available for paid members Courts NCLAT Upgrade to Premium to download. Already Upgraded? Log in. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Thothappa Nainar Mohamed Sirajdheen Vs Intex Technologies (India) Ltd. (NCLAT Delhi) Summary: NCLAT Delhi dismissed the appeal challenging the NCLT Chennai order dated 22 June 2018 admitting an application under Section 9 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 filed by the Operational Creditor. The Appellant sought to establish existence of a dispute by relying on a letter dated 11 June 2017 and a criminal case lodged against the Managing Director of the Corporate Debtor. It was alleged that the Managing Director had purchased material unrelated to the Corporate Debtor’s business and issued cheques that were dishonoured. NCLAT declined to determine the question of criminal liability because that issue was pending before a competent court. On the insolvency issue, the Appellate Tribunal found nothing on record showing that the Corporate Debtor had raised any dispute concerning the supply or quality of goods before issuance of the demand notice under Section 8(1) of the I&B Code. In the absence of such a pre-existing dispute, NCLAT held that the Adjudicating Authority had rightly admitted the Operational Creditor’s application. Finding no merit in the appeal, NCLAT dismissed it without costs. FULL TEXT OF THE NCLAT JUDGMENT/ORDER The Appellant has challenged order dated 22nd June, 2018 passed by the Adjudicating Authority (National Company Law Tribunal), Division Bench, Chennai, whereby and whereunder application under Section 9 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (for short ‘I&B Code’) preferred by the Respondent (Operational Creditor) has been admitted. 2. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the Appellant submitted that there is an existence of dispute and relied on a letter dated 11th June, 2017 to suggest that a criminal case was lodged against one Mr. Mohammed Sirajudeen, Managing Director of the Corporate Debtor. According to learned counsel for the Appellant, Mr. Mohammed Sirajudeen was appointed as Managing Director of the Corporate Debtor, who purchased certain material which has no concern with the business of the Corporate Debtor and cheques were issued by him which were bounced and criminal case was lodged against Mr. Mohammed Sirajudeen. 3. Though such submissions are made, we are not inclined to decide the question relating to criminal liability which is pending consideration before a court of competent jurisdiction. 4. There is nothing on record to suggest that the Corporate Debtor raised any dispute about the supply or quality of goods prior to issuance of demand notice under Section 8(1) of I&B Code. Such being the case, the Adjudicating Authority has rightly held that there was no pre-existing dispute and admitted the application. We find no merit in this appeal. It is accordingly dismissed. No cost. Advertisement (adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({}); Filed under bankruptcy codeIBC 2016NCLAT Author Info Name: CA Sandeep Kanoi Qualification: CA in Job / Business Company: Taxguru Consultancy Location: Mumbai, Maharashtra Articles Published: 20,754 View full profile → More from CA Sandeep Kanoi Statutory Appeal Available Against Reassessment; Writ Petitions Dismissed: Bombay HC October 1, 2026 Flydubai Flight FZ1073 Hijack Scare: What Happened and What Do Squawk 7500, 7700 and Other Aviation Terms Mean? October 1, 2026 Documentary GST Fraud Probe Does Not Automatically Justify Arrest: Telangana HC October 1, 2026 Join TaxGuru's Network for the latest updates on Income Tax, GST, Company Law, Corporate Laws and other related subjects. Join Our WhatsApp Group Join Our Telegram Group Review us on Google Related Articles in Corporate Law Flydubai Flight FZ1073 Hijack Scare: What Happened and What Do Squawk 7500, 7700 and Other Aviation Terms Mean? October 1, 2026 Seized Perishable Betel Nuts to Be Released After Ownership Verification: Gauhati HC October 1, 2026 Income Tax Cannot Adjust Refunds Against Pre-IBC Demands After Resolution Plan Approval: Calcutta HC October 1, 2026 Income Tax Refund Cannot Be Adjusted Against Pre-CIRP Dues During IBC Moratorium: NCLT Ahmedabad October 1, 2026 NSEL Is Financial Establishment Under MPID Act; 63 Moons Property Attachment Valid: SC September 30, 2026 Loan Can Be ‘Deposit’ Under MPID Act Regardless of Nomenclature: SC September 30, 2026